drinking	19434800	Drinking function	Effect of coffee and tea on the glycaemic index of foods: no effect on mean but   reduced variability.Coffee and tea may influence glycaemic responses but it is not clear whether they affect the glycaemic index (GI) value of foods. Therefore, to see if coffee and tea affected the mean and SEM of GI values, the GI of fruit leather (FL) and cheese puffs (CP) were determined twice in ten subjects using the FAO/WHO protocol with white bread as the reference food. In one series subjects chose to drink 250 ml of either coffee or tea with all test meals, while in the other series they drank 250 ml water. The tests for both series were conducted as a single experiment with the order of all tests being randomised. Coffee and tea increased the overall mean peak blood glucose increment compared with water by 0.25 (SEM 0.09) mmol/l (P=0.02), but did not significantly affect the incremental area under the glucose response curve. Mean GI values were not affected by coffee or tea but the SEM was reduced by about 30% (FL: 31 (SEM 4) v. 35 (SEM 7) and CP: 76 (SEM 6) v. 75 (SEM 8) for coffee or tea v. water, respectively). The error mean square term from the ANOVA of the GI values was significantly smaller for coffee or tea v. water (F(18, 18) = 2.31; P=0.04). We conclude that <e>drinking</e> coffee or tea with test meals does not affect the mean GI value obtained, but may reduce variability and, hence, improve precision.
drinking	20465145	Alcohol consumption	Health behaviors of employed and insured adults in the United States, 2004-2005.PURPOSE: To examine the prevalence of health behaviors, including clinical preventive services and lifestyle risk behaviors, among insured workers and to determine whether disparities in health behaviors based on demographic factors exist among this group. DESIGN: Cross-sectional analysis of 2004-2005 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System data. SETTING: United States. SUBJECTS:. A representative sample of noninstitutionalized employed and insured adults aged 18 to 64 years (139,738 in 2004 and 159,755 in 2005). MEASURES: Self-reported clinical preventive services utilization and lifestyle-related behaviors, as well as multiple logistic regression analyses assessing the independent effects of demographic and access variables on health behaviors. RESULTS: Among insured workers, rates of not using recommended clinical preventive services ranged from 8.5% (cervical cancer screening) to 73.9% (influenza vaccination). Rates for engaging in lifestyle-related risks ranged from 5.5% (heavy <e>drinking</e>) to 77.1% (inadequate fruit-vegetable consumption). In multivariate analyses, lower income, lower education, cost as a barrier to health care, and no health care provider were associated with significantly decreased clinical preventive services utilization (p &lt; .01). Lower education and no health care provider were associated with lifestyle-related risks (p &lt; .01). CONCLUSIONS: Working insured adults are not meeting recommendations for health behaviors. Significant disparities in health behaviors related to socioeconomic status exist among this group. Employers and insurers should consider these poor health behaviors and disparities when designing insurance benefits addressing clinical preventive services utilization and workplace health promotion programs addressing lifestyle-related behaviors.
drinking	20385640	Alcohol consumption	Alcohol use by youth and adolescents: a pediatric concern.Alcohol use continues to be a major problem from preadolescence through young adulthood in the United States. Results of recent neuroscience research have substantiated the deleterious effects of alcohol on adolescent brain development and added even more evidence to support the call to prevent and reduce underaged <e>drinking</e>. Pediatricians should be knowledgeable about substance abuse to be able to recognize risk factors for alcohol and other substance abuse among youth, screen for use, provide appropriate brief interventions, and refer to treatment. The integration of alcohol use prevention programs in the community and our educational system from elementary school through college should be promoted by pediatricians and the health care community. Promotion of media responsibility to connect alcohol consumption with realistic consequences should be supported by pediatricians. Additional research into the prevention, screening and identification, brief intervention, and management and treatment of alcohol and other substance use by adolescents continues to be needed to improve evidence-based practices.
drinking	20556982	Alcohol consumption	[Risky alcohol <e>drinking</e>. Unclear concept that needs a clear definition]
drinking	20166652	Alcohol consumption	<e>Drinking</e> games and college students. Part 1: problem description.College students seek peer acceptance and opportunities for social interaction. For many, it may be the first time away from home, away from the supervision and watchful eyes of parents and other family members. Whether for fun, thrill, competition, or the need to socialize with others, approximately two thirds of U.S. college students participate in the risky binge drinking behavior called drinking games. Regardless of the game type, the goal of this behavior is to become intoxicated in a short period of time. Significant consequences and harm can result form this dangerous social behavior. This article, the first of two parts, will describe the problem; Part 2 will discuss the implications for community and mental health nurses.
drinking	19606523	Drinking function	Can providing <e>drinking</e> water in schools help reduce obesity?
drinking	20193236	Alcohol consumption	[Impact of gene-environment interaction between the C (-344) T polymorphism of CYP11B2 and <e>drinking</e> index on the risk of hypertension under multifactor dimensionality reduction model in Chinese Mongolian population]OBJECTIVE: To explore the interaction between C (-344) T polymorphism of CYP11B2 and drinking index (DI) as well as their impact on the risk of hypertension in Chinese Mongolian population. METHODS: A total of 1575 Mongolian people aged 20 and older including 562 hypertensive and 1013 normal-tensive from agricultural and pastoral areas in Tongliao city of Inner Mongolia, were included in this study. A cross-sectional survey was conducted to collect data by personal interview with local residents, using a standard questionnaire. Fasting blood samples were drawn and height, weight and blood pressure were measured. The variant genotypes of CYP11B2, ACE and eNOS were identified by PCR assays. Gene-environment interactions were analyzed, using multifactor dimensionality reduction (MDR) model. Based on the result of the best MDR model, a multiple logistic regression model was constructed as the final cause-effect interpretative model. RESULTS: The interaction between CYP11B2 variant genotype and drinking index appeared the best MDR model with statistical significance (chi(2) = 66.35, P &lt; 0.01). Testing balance accuracy of the model was 0.604. The cross-validation consistency was 10/10. Data from the final multiple logistic regression based on the MDR model showed that the main effects of both CYP11B2 variant genotype and the DI were not significantly different but the interaction between the genotype (TC) and the DI (90-) was, with regard to hypertension (OR, 10.25; 95%CI, 2.23 - 47.18; P = 0.003). The combined effects between CYP11B2 variant genotype and the DI showed that following indices as: genotype TT or TC combining non-zero drinking index, including genotype (TT) combining the drinking index (&gt; or = 168), the genotype (TT) combining the drinking index (&gt; or = 40), the genotype (TT) combining the drinking index (&gt; or = 1) and the genotype (TC) combining the drinking index (&gt; or = 90), were all risk factors of hypertension when comparing with genotype (CC) combining the drinking index (0), and the ORs (95%CI) appeared to be 2.07 (1.15 - 3.70), 2.35 (1.22 - 4.56), 2.05 (1.07 - 3.94) and 5.56 (2.54 - 12.18) respectively. CONCLUSION: Essential hypertension might positively be affected by the interaction of the C (-344) T polymorphism of CYP11B2 and the drinking index in Chinese Mongolian population.
drinking	19645105	Drinking function	[Problems in the monitoring of bromine-containing substances in the <e>drinking</e> water]The water concentrations of bromide ions at the level of 0.2 mg/dm3 or higher, which are sufficient for redox reaction of humin compounds under the action of potent oxidizing agents present a potential hazard in the hygienic terms of formation of transformation products, which also agrees with the hygienic standards. The concentration of bromide ions below 0.1 mg/dm3 can be considered to be relatively safe in the terms of production of organobromine compounds.
drinking	20180450	Alcohol consumption	[Short-time intervention in hazardous alcohol <e>drinking</e> habits: Screen and give individual support--do not forget the women and the nurses!]
drinking	20081258	Drinking function	Effect of peptide and nonpeptide antagonists of angiotensin II receptors on noradrenaline release in hypothalamus of rats with angiotensin II-induced increase of water intake.Angiotensin II (Ang II) administered intracerebroventriculary (icv) at a dose that induces <e>drinking</e> behavior in rats significantly increased K(+)-stimulated release of [(3)H] noradrenaline (NA) in hypothalamus without affecting basal [(3)H] NA release. The observed difference between the effects of Ang II on basal and K(+)-stimulated [(3)H]NA release may possibly be due to the fact that peptides are released after increased neuronal activity. It can be suggested that Ang II is important primarily in pathological states and that NA plays a substantial role in the brain Ang II-induced drinking response. The imidazolic nonpeptidic compound 2-n-butyl-4-chloro-5-hydroxymethyl-1-{[2-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl}imidazole potassium salt (DuP 753, losartan), its active metabolite 2-n-butyl-4-chloro-1-{[2-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)- biphenyl-4-yl]methyl}imidazole-5-carboxylic acid (EXP 3174) and peptide Ang II analogue, sarmesin, antagonized the Ang II-induced effect on [(3)H]NA release, in spite of the differences in their chemical structures. Thus, the drugs tested inhibited K(+)-stimulated [(3)H]NA release in hypothalamus, acting via the angiotensin (AT)(1) receptor subtype. We could not reject the possibility of a non-receptor mechanism of action for DuP753, EXP3174 and sarmesin. This research allows us to suggest a neurochemical mechanism for the modulatory role of these drugs on the NA-ergic system. The Ang II receptor antagonists studied may become important therapeutic agents, which act preferentially on pathologically activated systems. These agents may be of use for the prevention of excessive ingestion of water in some neuropsychotic diseases.
drinking	20082033	Drinking function	Evaluation of surface sampling techniques for collection of Bacillus spores on common <e>drinking</e> water pipe materials.Drinking water utilities may face biological contamination of the distribution system from a natural incident or deliberate contamination. Determining the extent of contamination or the efficacy of decontamination is a challenge, because it may require sampling of the wetted surfaces of distribution infrastructure. This study evaluated two sampling techniques that utilities might use to sample exhumed pipe sections. Polyvinyl chloride (PVC), cement-lined ductile iron, and ductile iron pipe coupons (3 cm x 14 cm) cut from new water main piping were conditioned for three months in dechlorinated Cincinnati, Ohio tap water. Coupons were spiked with Bacillus atrophaeus subsp. globigii, a surrogate for Bacillus anthracis. Brushing and scraping were used to recover the inoculated spores from the coupons. Mean recoveries for all materials ranged from 37 +/- 30% to 43 +/- 20% for brushing vs. 24 +/- 10% to 51 +/- 29% for scraping. On cement-lined pipe, brushing yielded a significantly different recovery than scraping. No differences were seen between brushing and scraping the PVC and iron pipe coupons. Mean brushing and scraping recoveries from PVC coupons were more variable than mean recoveries from cement-lined and iron coupons. Spore retention differed between pipe materials and the presence of established biofilms also had an impact. Conditioned PVC coupons (with established biofilms) had significantly lower spore retention (31 +/- 11%) than conditioned cement-lined coupons (61 +/- 14%) and conditioned iron coupons (71 +/- 8%).
drinking	20402613	Alcohol consumption	Alcohol policy reform in Australia: what can we learn from the evidence?Alcohol consumption is a major risk factor contributing to the burden of disease in Australia. The National Preventative Health Taskforce recommends the long-term goal of reshaping Australia's <e>drinking</e> culture to produce healthier and safer outcomes. A study of the cost-effectiveness of interventions to reduce alcohol-related harm in Australia suggests that policymakers could achieve over 10 times the health gain if they reallocated the current level of investment. The optimal package of interventions identified in the study comprises, in order of cost-effectiveness, volumetric taxation, advertising bans, an increase in the minimum legal drinking age to 21 years, brief intervention by primary care practitioners, licensing controls, a drink-driving mass media campaign, and random breath testing. Australia has a window of opportunity to significantly expand activities to reduce alcohol-related harm. It is important that federal and state governments take this opportunity to reform alcohol policy in Australia.
drinking	19759446	Drinking function	<e>Drinking</e> water from alternative water sources: differences in beliefs, social norms and factors of perceived behavioural control across eight Australian locations.Australia is facing serious challenges in the management of water in various urban and regional locations. Two popular responses to these challenges are increasing supply through alternative water sources such as recycled and desalinated water. However, significant gaps exist in our knowledge of community attitudes to these alternative sources of water, particularly for potable use. This paper reports results from an Australian study of community attitudes to alternative water sources. Sixty six qualitative interviews were held at eight locations with distinctly different water situations. This paper explores all three antecedents to the behaviour of drinking recycled water and desalinated water as postulated by the Theory of Planned Behaviour: attitudes, social norms and factors of perceived behavioural control. Key results indicate that while people hold both positive and negative beliefs (mostly cost, health and environmental concerns) about water from alternative sources, nearly all of them are willing to drink it if the water crisis were to deteriorate further. People also feel they lack knowledge and state that information from scientists would influence their decision to drink recycled and desalinated water most. Friends and relatives are most influential in preventing people from drinking recycled water. The findings reported in this paper have major implications for water policy, and will be of particular interest to water engineers. The paper raises a provocative question: Is it better to avoid public consultation in introducing water from alternative sources?
drinking	20214165	Alcohol consumption	Musculoskeletal disorders among bank office workers in Kuwait.This cross-sectional observational study assessed the pattern of musculoskeletal disorder (MSDs) suffered by bank office workers in Kuwait. A self-administered validated questionnaire was used that included the Nordic musculoskeletal questionnaire and 12-item general health questionnaire (GHQ12). Of 750 employees, 80% suffered at least 1 episode of MSD during the previous year and 42% suffered at least 1 disabling episode. The most affected body parts were the neck (53.5%), lower back (51.1%), shoulders (49.2%) and upper back (38.4%). Nationality, GHQ12 score, smoking and sex were significant predictors of MSDs during the previous year, while alcohol <e>drinking</e>, marital status, GHQ12 score, years in Kuwait and sex were significant predictors of disabling MSDs during the previous year.
drinking	20211936	Alcohol consumption	Associations between alcohol <e>drinking</e> and multiple risk factors for atherosclerosis in smokers and nonsmokers.This study investigated relationships between alcohol intake and multiple risk factors for atherosclerosis in smokers and nonsmokers. Men aged 35 to 54 years (n = 27 005) were divided into 6 groups by ethanol intake. The prevalence of multiple (&gt;or=3 or &gt;or=4) risk factors, including obesity, high blood pressure, high total cholesterol, triglyceride and fasting blood glucose, and low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, was compared among the groups in smokers and nonsmokers. Smokers and nonsmokers showed U- and J-shaped relationships, respectively, between alcohol intake and prevalence of multiple risk factors. Odds ratios of drinkers versus nondrinkers for multiple risk factors were significantly low in very light, light, moderate, and heavy drinkers in smokers and were significantly low in light and moderate drinkers but not in very low and heavy drinkers in nonsmokers. There is a U- or J-shaped relationship between alcohol consumption and multiple risk factors for atherosclerosis, and this relationship is modified by smoking.
drinking	20509534	Alcohol consumption	[ The alluring kindness of wine . . .  Medical curiosities from the cultural history of wine <e>drinking</e>]
drinking	19720249	Drinking function	Malingering dysphagia and odynophagia electromyographic assessment.OBJECTIVE: The article discusses the usefulness and investigation technique of suspected malingering dysphagia/odynophagia by surface electromyography (sEMG) of deglutition. METHODS: Forty patients with suspected malingering dysphagia (group 1), 40 patients with dysphagia/odynophagia due to tonsillectomy (group 2), and 40 healthy individuals (group 3) were involved in the study. The timing, amplitude, and graphic patterns of activity of the masseter, submental, and trapezius muscles were examined during voluntary single water swallows ( normal ) and continuous <e>drinking</e> of 100 mL of water. The muscle activity in oral, pharyngeal, and initial esophageal stages of swallowing was measured, and graphic records were evaluated in relation to timing and voltage. RESULTS: The main sEMG patterns of malingering dysphagia/odynophagia are prolonged time of the voluntary oral phase of a swallow (80% of cases, n = 32, P &lt; .01 vs healthy volunteers) with normal timing of the reflex pharyngeal and initial esophageal phases and normal amplitude voltage. In 42.5% of cases (n = 17, P &lt; .05 vs healthy volunteers), tension of skeletal muscles normally not involved in deglutition was observed during single swallowing being at the same time absent during continuous drinking. CONCLUSION: Dysphagia due to malingering has no pathologic sEMG patterns associated with deglutition. Skeletal muscle tension during deglutition, being observed in some cases, has no connection with the act of swallowing itself. Prolonged oral phase of a swallow is factitious, nonpathologic. Surface EMG, being noninvasive, nonradiographic and inexpensive, can be used for patients with suspected malingering dysphagia, thus avoiding expensive and time-consuming investigation.
drinking	20180327	Drinking function	Delayed puberty onset in rats that consumed aqueous extract of Hibiscus sabdariffa during the juvenile-pubertal period.The report that intervention during the juvenile-pubertal period in rats modifies the phenotype induced by prenatal nutrition suggests some degree of plasticity in the juvenile-pubertal period. It is not known whether consumption of aqueous extract of Hibiscus sabdariffa (HS) during the juvenile-pubertal period will affect the growth and onset of puberty in rats. The present study was therefore designed to investigate this. Weaned 21-days-old rats, whose mothers were given food and water ad libitum during pregnancy and lactation, were divided randomly into three groups of nine rats each. Control group had tap water only while the extract groups had 0.6 g extract/100 mL and 1.8 g extract/100 mL as their <e>drinking</e> solution throughout the juvenile-pubertal period [postnatal day (PND) 21-puberty onset]. From PND 30 onwards, the rats were inspected daily for vaginal opening, which was used as the index for puberty onset. Rats in the HS groups (0.6 and 1.8 g/100 mL) drank less fluid (solution of HS extract and water) and consumed less food compared with the control group at all periods of measurement. The weight of 0.6 g/100 mL was not different from the control whereas 1.8 g/100 mL was lower at PND 28, similar at PND 35 and higher at PND 42 compared with the control. Puberty onset in the HS groups was significantly delayed compared with the control. It is concluded that consumption of aqueous extract of HS during the juvenile-pubertal period decreased fluid and food consumption, increased weight gain and delayed puberty onset in rats.
drinking	19552069	Drinking function	Impact of chlorination on the incidence of cancers and miscarriages in two different campus communities in India.Long-term impacts of <e>drinking</e> chlorinated water on the incidence of cancers and miscarriages were assessed in a population-based cross-sectional study conducted in the two campus communities of IIT Kanpur (IITK) and IIT Kharagpur (IITKgp). IITK has been using untreated groundwater since the community was established in 1963, while IITKgp has been using chlorinated water for more than 30 years. A house-to-house survey was carried out to gather information on residential history, i.e age, education, income, source and extent of treatment of water and health characteristics. Only adults above 20 years of age were included for data analyses. Odds ratios were calculated based on the hypothesis that exposure to chlorinated drinking water may result in a higher incidence of cancers and miscarriages as found in many studies. The odds ratios (OR) in this study were found to be 0.56 (95% CI = 0.16 to 1.62) for cancers and 0.33 (95% CI = 0.19-0.56) for miscarriages. These OR values are not statistically significant indicating the lack of association between cancers or miscarriages and exposure to chlorinated drinking water, and are in agreement with some published epidemiological studies as well. Reciprocal OR values were calculated based on an alternative hypothesis that chlorination actually decreases the risk of cancers and miscarriages. Based on this, the OR values for cancers are 1.77 (95% CI = 0.55 to 5.66) and for miscarriages are 3.07 (95% CI = 1.78 to 5.29). These results show that there is no association between exposure to chlorinated drinking water and cancers while there is significant decrease in the incidence of miscarriages for those exposed to chlorinated drinking water.
drinking	19836051	Drinking function	Analysis and occurrence of odorous disinfection by-products from chlorination of amino acids in three different <e>drinking</e> water treatment plants and corresponding distribution networks.Previous studies have established that odorous and stable chloraldimines are formed during amino acid chlorination in drinking water treatment. In order to identify at low level (10(-8) M) the presence of these odorous disinfection by-products in drinking water matrixes an analytical method was developed by using head space apparatus (HS) combined with a sorbent trap system linked to a GC with a mass spectrometer detector (HS/Trap/GC/MS). The analyses were carried out in three different drinking water supplies from the Paris area, during the four seasons. Free amino acids were monitored at the inlet of the plant. The odorous disinfection by-products were analyzed at the outlet of each drinking water treatment plant and the different distribution networks were connected to the corresponding plant. The results confirmed that the odorous chloraldimines are produced during chlorination of free amino acids in three different matrixes in different seasons throughout the year (N-chloroisobutaldimine; N-chloromethyl-2-butaldimine; N-chloromethyl-3-butaldimine (6-10 nM). The analytical method (HS/Trap/GC/MS) used to monitor odorous disinfection by-products appeared to be adapted for the detection of these by-products at nM level.
drinking	20230722	Alcohol consumption	Relationship between alcohol <e>drinking</e> and aspartate aminotransferase:alanine aminotransferase (AST:ALT) ratio, mean corpuscular volume (MCV), gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT), and apolipoprotein A1 and B in the U.S. population.OBJECTIVE: The misuse of alcohol, even at levels just above two drinks per day, is a public health problem, but identifying patients with this potentially unhealthy drinking is hindered by the lack of tests. Several blood tests, such as those testing for gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) or mean corpuscular volume (MCV), are among the commonly used markers to identify very heavy drinking, but combinations of these markers have rarely been tested in lighter drinkers. We examined the relationship between alcohol drinking and the levels of these markers in a national population-based study composed primarily of lighter drinkers. METHOD: Data were analyzed from 8,708 adult participants in the third U.S. National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey after excluding subjects with iron overload; with hepatitis B and C; who were pregnant; and who were taking prescription drugs such as phenytoin (Dilantin), barbiturates, and hydroxyurea (Droxia and Hydrea). The relationship between the amount of alcohol drinking and GGT, aspartate aminotransferase:alanine aminotransferase ratio, MCV of erythrocytes, and apolipoprotein A1 and B were analyzed and adjusted for potential liver injury risk factors. RESULTS: The prevalence of unhealthy alcohol drinking (defined as consumption of more than two standard drinks per day) was 6.7%. Heavier drinkers tended to be younger and reported an average of 4.2 drinks per day. When tested alone or in combination, the sensitivity and positive predictive values for these blood tests were too low to be clinically useful in identifying the subjects in the heavier drinking category. CONCLUSIONS: In this large, national, population-based study, the markers of heavy drinking studied here, either alone or in combination, did not appear to be useful in identifying unhealthy drinking. More work is needed to find the novel marker(s) associated with risky alcohol drinking.
drinking	19472536	Drinking function	Agreement between stress intraocular pressure  and long-term intraocular pressure measurements  in primary open angle glaucoma.PURPOSE: The aim of this paper is to study the correlation between the intraocular pressure peaks and fluctuation detected during the water <e>drinking</e> test and the same parameters observed during long-term follow up. METHODS: This prospective cohort study enrolled 22 eyes of 22 newly diagnosed primary open angle glaucoma patients. After an initial complete ophthalmological examination, patients were started on antiglaucoma medication and returned 4 weeks later to perform the water drinking test. Thereafter,patients were evaluated at least eight times within a period of 6-12 months. The intraocular pressure peaks and fluctuation detected during the water drinking stress test were compared with those observed during regular office visits. Spearman's correlation coefficient and Bland-Altman Plots were used for statistical analysis. RESULTS: The mean age of participants was 54.3 +/- 8.2 years (+/-SD), 59% were women, and average mean deviation -10.2 +/- 4.5 dB. The mean follow-up period was 8.2 +/- 2.0 months. The average intraocular pressure peaks and fluctuation during the water drinking test were 20.0 +/- 2.9 mmHg and 40 +/- 10%, respectively, and 18.1 +/- 2.8 mmHg and 30 +/- 10% during follow up. Spearman's correlation coefficients were significant and strong between the intraocular pressure peaks and fluctuation detected during the water drinking test and during the follow-up period (P &lt; 0.001, rho = 0.76 and 0.82,respectively). There was good agreement between the variables. CONCLUSION: The intraocular pressure peaks and fluctuation detected during the water drinking test showed significant correlation and agreement with the pressures observed during follow-up visits. Stress tests could be used to estimate long-term intraocular pressure variation.
drinking	20223875	Alcohol consumption	Body mass index and risk of liver cirrhosis in middle aged UK women: prospective study.OBJECTIVE: To determine the relation between body mass index (BMI) and liver cirrhosis and the contribution that BMI and alcohol consumption make to the incidence of liver cirrhosis in middle aged women in the UK. DESIGN: Prospective cohort study (Million Women Study). SETTING: Women recruited from 1996 to 2001 in NHS breast screening centres and followed by record linkage to routinely collected information on hospital admissions and deaths. PARTICIPANTS: 1 230 662 women (mean age 56 years at recruitment) followed for an average of 6.2 years. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Relative risk and absolute risk of first hospital admission with or death from liver cirrhosis adjusted for age, recruitment region, alcohol consumption, smoking, socioeconomic status, and physical activity. RESULTS: 1811 women had a first hospital admission with or died from liver cirrhosis during follow-up. Among women with a BMI of 22.5 or above, increasing BMI was associated with an increased incidence of liver cirrhosis: the adjusted relative risk of cirrhosis increased by 28% (relative risk 1.28, 95% confidence interval 1.19 to 1.38; P&lt;0.001) for every 5 unit increase in BMI. Although the relative increase in the risk of liver cirrhosis per 5 unit increase in BMI did not differ significantly according to the amount of alcohol consumed, the absolute risk did. Among women who reported <e>drinking</e> less than 70 g alcohol per week, the absolute risk of liver cirrhosis per 1000 women over five years was 0.8 (0.7 to 0.9) for those with a BMI between 22.5 and 25 and 1.0 (0.9 to 1.2) for those with a BMI of 30 or more. Among women who reported drinking 150 g alcohol or more per week, the corresponding figures were 2.7 (2.1 to 3.4) and 5.0 (3.8 to 6.6). CONCLUSIONS: Excess body weight increases the incidence of liver cirrhosis. In middle aged women in the UK, an estimated 17% of incident or fatal liver cirrhosis is attributable to excess body weight. This compares with an estimated 42% attributable to alcohol.
drinking	19807723	Drinking function	Effects of aerobic fitness on hypohydration-induced physiological strain and exercise impairment.AIM: Hypohydration exacerbates cardiovascular and thermal strain and can impair exercise capacity in temperate and warm conditions. Yet, athletes often dehydrate in exercise, are hypervolaemic and have less cardiovascular sensitivity to acute hypervolaemia. We tested the hypothesis that trained individuals have less cardiovascular, thermoregulatory and performance affect of hypohydration during exercise. METHODS: After familiarization, six trained [VO(2 peak) = 64 (SD 8) mL kg(-1) min(-1)] and six untrained [O(2 peak) = 45 (4) mL kg(-1) min(-1)] males cycled 40 min at 70%O(2 peak) while euhydrated or hypohydrated by 1.5-2.0% body mass (crossover design), before a 40-min work trial with euhydration or ad libitum <e>drinking</e> (in Hypohydration trial), in temperate conditions (24.3 degrees C, RH 50%, v(a) = 4.5 m s(-1)). Baseline hydration was by complete or partial rehydration from exercise+heat stress the previous evening. RESULTS: During constant workload, heart rate and its drift were increased in Hypohydration compared with Euhydration for Untrained [drift: 33 (11) vs. 24 beats min(-1) h(-1) (10), 95% CI 5-11] but not Trained [14 (3) vs. 13 beats min(-1) h(-1) (3), CI -2 to 3; P = 0.01 vs. Untrained]. Similarly, rectal temperature drift was faster in Hypohydration for Untrained only [by 0.57 degrees C h(-1) (0.25); P = 0.03 vs. Trained], concomitant with their reduced sweat rate (P = 0.05) and its relation to plasma osmolality (P = 0.03). Performance power tended to be reduced for Untrained (-13%, CI -35 to 2) and Trained (-7%, CI: -16 to 1), without an effect of fitness (P = 0.38). CONCLUSION: Mild hypohydration exacerbated cardiovascular and thermoregulatory strain and tended to impair endurance performance, but aerobic fitness attenuated the physiological effects.
drinking	20057194	Drinking function	A simple dietary intervention in the school setting decreased incidence of overweight in children.OBJECTIVE: The study analyzed the effect of a combined environmental and educational intervention solely promoting water consumption on the incidence of overweight among school children. METHODS: 2,950 second and third graders of 32 elementary schools in socially deprived neighborhoods of two German cities participated in a randomized controlled intervention trial (August 2006-June 2007). In intervention schools (N = 17), water fountains were installed, each child received a water bottle, and teachers performed classroom lessons to promote water consumption. Control schools (N = 15) did not receive any intervention. Body heights and weights were measured at baseline and follow-up to assess the incidence and remission of overweight and obesity during follow-up. The water flow of the fountains was measured regularly during follow-up. Children's beverage consumption was self-reported in 24-hour recall questionnaires before and after intervention. RESULTS: After the intervention, the incidence of overweight was significantly lower in the intervention group (3.8%) than in the control group (6.0%, p = 0.018). Remission of overweight and obesity did not differ between the groups. Measured water flow of the fountains indicated a sustained use. CONCLUSION: A simple dietary intervention with the sole focus on the promotion of <e>drinking</e> water effectively reduced the incidence of overweight among school children.
drinking	20368648	Alcohol consumption	The spread of alcohol consumption behavior in a large social network.BACKGROUND: Alcohol consumption has important health-related consequences and numerous biological and social determinants. OBJECTIVE: To explore quantitatively whether alcohol consumption behavior spreads from person to person in a large social network of friends, coworkers, siblings, spouses, and neighbors, followed for 32 years. DESIGN: Longitudinal network cohort study. SETTING: The Framingham Heart Study. PARTICIPANTS: 12 067 persons assessed at several time points between 1971 and 2003. MEASUREMENTS: Self-reported alcohol consumption (number of drinks per week on average over the past year and number of days <e>drinking</e> within the past week) and social network ties, measured at each time point. RESULTS: Clusters of drinkers and abstainers were present in the network at all time points, and the clusters extended to 3 degrees of separation. These clusters were not only due to selective formation of social ties among drinkers but also seem to reflect interpersonal influence. Changes in the alcohol consumption behavior of a person's social network had a statistically significant effect on that person's subsequent alcohol consumption behavior. The behaviors of immediate neighbors and coworkers were not significantly associated with a person's drinking behavior, but the behavior of relatives and friends was. LIMITATIONS: A nonclinical measure of alcohol consumption was used. Also, it is unclear whether the effects on long-term health are positive or negative, because alcohol has been shown to be both harmful and protective. Finally, not all network ties were observed. CONCLUSION: Network phenomena seem to influence alcohol consumption behavior. This has implications for clinical and public health interventions and further supports group-level interventions to reduce problematic drinking.
drinking	20382379	Drinking function	Effect modification of the association between trihalomethanes and pancreatic cancer by <e>drinking</e> water hardness: evidence from an ecological study.The objective of this study was to examine the relationship between total trihalomethanes (TTHM) levels in public water supplies and risk of pancreatic cancer and to determine whether calcium (Ca) and magnesium (Mg) levels in drinking water modify the effects of TTHM on risk to develop pancreatic cancer. A matched case-control study was used to investigate the relationship between the risk of death attributed to pancreatic cancer and exposure to TTHM in drinking water in 53 municipalities in Taiwan. All pancreatic cancer deaths in the 53 municipalities from 1998 through 2007 were obtained from the Bureau of Vital Statistics of the Taiwan Provincial Department of Health. Controls were deaths from other causes and were pair matched to the cancer cases by gender, year of birth, and year of death. Each matched control was selected randomly from the set of possible controls for each cancer case. Data on TTHM levels in drinking water were collected from Taiwan Environmental Protection Administration. Information on the levels of Ca and Mg in drinking water was obtained from the Taiwan Water Supply Corporation. The municipality of residence for cancer cases and controls was presumed to be the source of the subject's TTHM, Ca, and Mg exposure via drinking water. Relative to individuals whose TTHM exposure level &lt; 4.9ppb, the adjusted OR (95% CI) for pancreatic cancer was 1.01 (0.85-1.21) for individuals who resided in municipalities served by drinking water with a TTHM exposure &gt; 4.9ppb. There was no evidence of an interaction of drinking water TTHM levels with low Ca intake via drinking water. However, we observed evidence of an interaction between drinking water TTHM concentrations and Mg intake via drinking water. Our findings showed that the correlation between TTHM exposure and risk of pancreatic cancer is influenced by Mg in drinking water. Increased knowledge of the interaction between Mg and TTHM in reducing pancreatic cancer risk will aid in public policy making and standard setting.
drinking	20351238	Alcohol consumption	Alcohol intake and risk of coronary heart disease in younger, middle-aged, and older adults.BACKGROUND: Light to moderate alcohol consumption is associated with a reduced risk of coronary heart disease. This protective effect of alcohol, however, may be confined to middle-aged or older individuals. Coronary heart disease incidence is low in men &lt;40 years of age and in women &lt;50 years of age; for this reason, study cohorts rarely have the power to investigate the effects of alcohol on coronary heart disease risk in younger adults. This study examined whether the beneficial effect of alcohol on coronary heart disease depends on age. METHODS AND RESULTS: In this pooled analysis of 8 prospective studies from North America and Europe including 192,067 women and 74,919 men free of cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, and cancers at baseline, average daily alcohol intake was assessed at baseline with a food frequency or diet history questionnaire. An inverse association between alcohol and risk of coronary heart disease was observed in all age groups; hazard ratios among moderately <e>drinking</e> men (5.0 to 29.9 g/d) 39 to 50, 50 to 59, and &gt;or=60 years of age were 0.58 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.36 to 0.93), 0.72 (95% CI, 0.60 to 0.86), and 0.85 (95% CI, 0.75 to 0.97) compared with abstainers. However, the analyses indicated a smaller incidence rate difference between abstainers and moderate consumers in younger adults (incidence rate difference, 45 per 100,000; 90% CI, 8 to 84) than in middle-aged (incidence rate difference, 64 per 100,000; 90% CI, 24 to 102) and older (incidence rate difference, 89 per 100,000; 90% CI, 44 to 140) adults. Similar results were observed in women. CONCLUSIONS: Alcohol is also associated with a decreased risk of coronary heart disease in younger adults; however, the absolute risk was small compared with middle-aged and older adults.
drinking	19995243	Drinking function	Effect of myrrh (Commiphora molmol) on leukocyte levels before and during healing from gastric ulcer or skin injury.Myrrh (Commiphora molmol) has been widely used as an anti-inflammatory and wound healing commercial product. As white blood cell (WBC)/leukocyte counts have been used as an indicator by clinicians to monitor progress of healing in patients, the purpose of this study was to examine effects of myrrh supplementation on blood WBC numbers before an injury and during healing. Male rats (7-8-wk-of-age) were randomly assigned to four groups. Group 1 (SIM) served as  skin injury treated + myrrh treatment (500 mg/kg/day),  Group 2 (SI) as  skin injury alone , Group 3 (GUM) as  gastric ulcer treated + myrrh treatment , and Group 4 (GU) as gastric ulcer only. Myrrh treatments (via <e>drinking</e> water) began 4 wk before induction of injury and continued for a 2 wk period post-injury. Baseline values for each WBC type were recorded before start of the myrrh treatments. Counts were performed again on Day 1 of the 5th wk (1-2 hr before injury) and post-injury on Days 4 and 7 of the 5th wk, and a final time on Day 4 of the 6th wk. Results showed that levels of all WBC types were significantly (P &lt; 0.05) elevated before either injury in myrrh-treated rats (Groups 1 and 3) as compared with levels in rats in Groups 2 and 4. At all timepoints, there were neither significant differences between the values seen with rats in Groups 1 and 3, nor between those in Groups 2 and 4. Treatment with myrrh also induced an initial increase in WBC levels that persisted through the post-injury healing period. Levels of most cell types only increased in the Group 2 and 4 rats once the injury was induced, but then declined over the healing period. Since myrrh enhanced WBC levels before injury, we conclude that myrrh likely contains substances that could induce an apparent antigen-driven response. As the myrrh also helped maintain elevated WBC levels throughout the healing period, this implied it was also able to induce maturation/differentiation/activation of both myeloid and lymphoid cell types during the effector phase of the immune responses involved in wound healing.
drinking	19835921	Drinking function	Does having a drink help you think? 6-7-Year-old children show improvements in cognitive performance from baseline to test after having a drink of water.Little research has examined the effect of water consumption on cognition in children. We examined whether <e>drinking</e> water improves performance from baseline to test in twenty-three 6-7-year-old children. There were significant interactions between time of test and water group (water/no water), with improvements in the water group on thirst and happiness ratings, visual attention and visual search, but not visual memory or visuomotor performance. These results indicate that even under conditions of mild dehydration, not as a result of exercise, intentional water deprivation or heat exposure, children's cognitive performance can be improved by having a drink of water.
drinking	20407040	Alcohol consumption	A 42-year-old man considering whether to drink alcohol for his health.Alcohol consumption is widespread and, in excess, a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. At the same time, a consistent body of observational evidence has found that individuals who consume alcohol within recommended limits have a lower risk of coronary heart disease than do abstainers. These observations have led many to consider small amounts of alcohol as a cardioprotective strategy. Mr Q, a 42-year-old man who has consistently sought ways to preserve his health, is at a crossroads in his discussions with his physicians about the health effects of his regular, limited alcohol intake. The discussion reviews the epidemiology of <e>drinking</e> in the United States, the established effects of moderate alcohol intake on key pathophysiological biomarkers and pathways, the strengths and limitations of observational evidence linking alcohol intake to lower risk of coronary heart disease, other chronic diseases linked to moderate alcohol intake, and a framework in which Mr Q can discuss the potential risks and benefits of alcohol consumption with his physicians.
drinking	20307313	Alcohol consumption	Effects of body weight and alcohol consumption on insulin sensitivity.BACKGROUND: Obesity is a risk factor for the development of insulin resistance, which can eventually lead to type-2 diabetes. Alcohol consumption is a protective factor against insulin resistance, and thus protects against the development of type-2 diabetes. The mechanism by which alcohol protects against the development of type-2 diabetes is not well known. To determine the mechanism by which alcohol improves insulin sensitivity, we fed water or alcohol to lean, control, and obese mice. The aim of this study was to determine whether alcohol consumption and body weights affect overlapping metabolic pathways and to identify specific target genes that are regulated in these pathways. METHOD: Adipose tissue dysfunction has been associated with the development of type-2 diabetes. We assessed possible gene expression alterations in epididymal white adipose tissue (WAT). We obtained WAT from mice fed a calorie restricted (CR), low fat (LF Control) or high fat (HF) diets and either water or 20% ethanol in the <e>drinking</e> water. We screened the expression of genes related to the regulation of energy homeostasis and insulin regulation using a gene array composed of 384 genes. RESULTS: Obesity induced insulin resistance and calorie restriction and alcohol improved insulin sensitivity. The insulin resistance in obese mice was associated with the increased expression of inflammatory markers Cd68, Il-6 and Il-1alpha; in contrast, most of these genes were down-regulated in CR mice. Anti-inflammatory factors such as Il-10 and adrenergic beta receptor kinase 1 (Adrbk1) were decreased in obese mice and increased by CR and alcohol. Also, we report a direct correlation between body weight and the expression of the following genes: Kcnj11 (potassium inwardly-rectifying channel, subfamily J, member 11), Lpin2 (lipin2), and Dusp9 (dual-specificity MAP kinase phosphatase 9). CONCLUSION: We show that alcohol consumption increased insulin sensitivity. Additionally, alterations in insulin sensitivity related with obesity were coupled with alterations in inflammatory genes. We provide evidence that alcohol may improve insulin sensitivity by up-regulating anti-inflammatory genes. Moreover, we have indentified potential gene targets in energy metabolic pathways and signal transducers that may contribute to obesity-related insulin resistance as well as calorie restriction and alcohol-induced insulin sensitivity.
drinking	20364123	Drinking function	The molecular basis for water taste in Drosophila.The detection of water and the regulation of water intake are essential for animals to maintain proper osmotic homeostasis. Drosophila and other insects have gustatory sensory neurons that mediate the recognition of external water sources, but little is known about the underlying molecular mechanism for water taste detection. Here we identify a member of the degenerin/epithelial sodium channel family, PPK28, as an osmosensitive ion channel that mediates the cellular and behavioural response to water. We use molecular, cellular, calcium imaging and electrophysiological approaches to show that ppk28 is expressed in water-sensing neurons, and that loss of ppk28 abolishes water sensitivity. Moreover, ectopic expression of ppk28 confers water sensitivity to bitter-sensing gustatory neurons in the fly and sensitivity to hypo-osmotic solutions when expressed in heterologous cells. These studies link an osmosensitive ion channel to water taste detection and <e>drinking</e> behaviour, providing the framework for examining the molecular basis for water detection in other animals.
drinking	20230726	Alcohol consumption	Metabolite levels in the brain reward pathway discriminate those who remain abstinent from those who resume hazardous alcohol consumption after treatment for alcohol dependence.OBJECTIVE: This study compared baseline metabolite levels in components of the brain reward system among individuals who remained abstinent and those who resumed hazardous alcohol consumption after treatment for alcohol dependence. METHOD: Fifty-one treatment-seeking alcohol-dependent individuals (abstinent for approximately 7 days [SD = 3]) and 26 light-<e>drinking</e> nonsmoking controls completed 1.5-T proton magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging, yielding regional concentrations of N-acetylaspartate, choline-containing compounds, creatine-containing compounds, and myoinositol. Metabolite levels were obtained in the following component of the brain reward system: dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate cortex, insula, superior corona radiata, and cerebellar vermis. Alcohol-dependent participants were followed over a 12-month period after baseline study (i.e., at 7 days of abstinence [SD = 3]) and were classified as abstainers (no alcohol consumption; n = 18) and resumers (any alcohol consumption; n = 33) at follow-up. Baseline metabolite levels in abstainers and resumers and light-drinking nonsmoking controls were compared in the above regions of interest. RESULTS: Resumers demonstrated significantly lower baseline N-acetylaspartate concentrations than light-drinking nonsmoking controls and abstainers in all regions of interest. Resumers also exhibited lower creatine-containing-compound concentrations than abstainers in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, superior corona radiata, and cerebellar vermis. Abstainers did not differ from light-drinking nonsmoking controls on baseline metabolite concentrations in any region of interest. CONCLUSIONS: The significantly decreased N-acetylaspartate and creatine-containing-compound concentrations in resumers suggest compromised neuronal integrity and abnormalities in cellular bioenergetics in major neocortical components and white-matter interconnectivity of the brain reward pathway. The lack of metabolite differences between abstainers and light-drinking nonsmoking controls suggests premorbid factors potentially contributed to the baseline brain metabolite abnormalities observed in resumers.
drinking	19476968	Drinking function	Photodegradation of etridiazole by UV radiation during <e>drinking</e> water treatment.The photodegradation of etridiazole (ETZ) in water by UV radiation at 254 nm was investigated. Results indicate that the simulated first-order rate constants decreased with the increase of initial ETZ concentration (i.e., 5, 20 and 30 microM), and did not show any pH dependence within the range from 6.0 to 8.0. The quantum yield was 0.46+/-0.02 molE(-1) at pH 7.0. H(2)O(2) was generated at trace levels in the range from 0 to 1.0 microM during photodegradation of ETZ. Direct photodegradation was responsible for the decomposition of ETZ in distilled water by UV radiation. Three organic byproducts were identified: 5-ethoxy-3-dichloromethyl-1,2,4-thiadiazole, 5-ethoxy-1,2,4-thiadiazole-3-carboxylic acid and 5-ethoxy-3-hydroxyl-1,2,4-thiadiazole. About 90% of chloro mass in the initial ETZ was released as Cl(-) at the end of photodegradation. In contrast, the formation of sulfate and nitrate was insignificant. In general, ETZ decayed more quickly in groundwater than in sand-filtered or surface water. It is reasonably deduced that ETZ may not get removed effectively under a typical UV dose of 40 mJcm(-2) at most water treatment plants that employ UV radiation for disinfection.
drinking	20060847	Drinking function	Hunger and thirst: issues in measurement and prediction of eating and <e>drinking</e>.Associations between hunger and eating and between thirst and drinking are generally weak. This stems, in part, from limitations in the measurement of these sensations which generally rely on temporal, motivational, metabolic and/or self-reported descriptive indices. Each is critically reviewed. Also problematic is the fact that the deterministic depletion-repletion concept of ingestive behavior fails to account for influences of a multitude of contravening cognitive, social, sensory and logistical factors. Although hunger and thirst serve some parallel purposes, sharp distinctions are also present with health implications. Of particular note are the observations that thirst ratings are higher and more stable over the day compared to hunger and thirst may be more motivating to drink than hunger is to eat. Coupling these observations with evidence that beverages have limited satiety value, they pose particular challenges and opportunities. Beverages can facilitate the delivery of nutrients to those desiring or requiring them, but also to those where they are not desired or required. The benefits and risks are a function of their use rather than their inherent properties.
drinking	19781771	Drinking function	Evidence from knockout mice for distinct implications of neuropeptide-Y Y2 and Y4 receptors in the circadian control of locomotion, exploration, water and food intake.Members of the neuropeptide-Y (NPY) family acting via Y2 and/or Y4 receptors have been proposed to participate in the control of ingestive behaviour and energy homeostasis. Since these processes vary between day and night, we explored the circadian patterns of locomotor, exploratory and ingestive behaviour in mice with disrupted genes for Y2 (Y2-/-) or Y4 (Y4-/-) receptors. To this end, the LabMaster system was used and its utility for the analysis of changes in circadian activity and ingestion caused by gene knockout evaluated. Female animals, aged 27weeks on average, were housed singly in cages fitted with sensors for water and food intake and two infrared frames for recording ambulation and rearing under a 12h light/dark cycle for 4days. Relative to WT animals, diurnal locomotion, exploration, <e>drinking</e> and feeding were reduced, whereas nocturnal locomotion was enhanced in Y2-/- mice. In contrast, Y4-/- mice moved more but ate and drank less during the photophase, while they ate more and explored less during the scotophase. Both Y2-/- and Y4-/- mice weighed more than WT mice. These findings attest to a differential role of Y2 and Y4 receptor signalling in the circadian control of behaviours that balance energy intake and energy expenditure. These phenotypic traits can be sensitively and continuously recorded by the LabMaster system.
drinking	20056628	Drinking function	Arsenic in <e>drinking</e> water and risk of urinary tract cancer: a follow-up study from northeastern Taiwan.The evidence linking arsenic in drinking water with increased urinary cancer risk comes from populations in relatively high exposure areas (&gt;100 microg/L), whereas studies from lower exposure areas (&lt;100 microg/L) reported inconsistent results. A previous study conducted in northeastern Taiwan, where residents were exposed to relatively lower concentrations, reported increased risk of urinary cancer in a dose-response way. Using the same cohort with longer follow-up, we conducted analysis to elucidate the relationship between ingested arsenic and urinary cancer in lower exposure groups and assessed the influence of duration, recency, and latency of drinking arsenic-containing well water. A total of 8,086 residents from northeastern Taiwan were followed for 12 years. Incident urinary cancer was ascertained through linkage with the national cancer registry. All analysis was done by Cox proportional hazards regression models. There were 45 incidences of urinary cancer and a monotonic increased risk of urinary cancer was found with increasing arsenic concentration (P &lt; 0.001). For the highly exposed (&gt;100 microg/L), the relative risks (RR) were &gt;5-fold, whereas the risk was elevated but not significant for low exposure (&lt;100 microg/L). Relative to the arsenic concentration &lt;10 microg/L, those who drank well water with higher concentration from birth [RR, 3.69; 95% confidence interval (95% CI), 1.31-10.4], still drank at enrollment (RR, 3.50; 95% CI, 1.33-9.22), and drank for &gt;50 years (RR, 4.12; 95% CI, 1.48-11.5) had a significantly increased risk of urinary cancer. When restricted to urothelial carcinoma, all risk estimates including concentration and characteristics of well water consumption were higher.
drinking	19858168	Drinking function	A novel water delivery system for administering volatile chemicals while minimizing chemical waste in rodent toxicity studies.Rodent toxicity studies typically use water bottles to administer test chemicals via <e>drinking</e> water. However, water bottles provide inconsistent exposure of volatile chemicals due to varying headspace, and lead to excessive waste of test material. To refine drinking water toxicity studies in rodents by enhancing sample quality and consistency, and minimizing waste, we designed and implemented a novel water delivery system that keeps the water chilled, headspace free and protected from light. Materials used were resistant to chemical interaction. In this gravity-fed system, a 6-L Teflon water bag, stored in a polystyrene cooler on the cage rack, was connected to a stainless steel manifold delivering water to five cages via specialized drinking valves. Due to the absence of headspace in the water bag, this system allows consistent exposure of volatile chemicals. In addition, small diameter tubing throughout the system reduces the amount of test material residing in the system and minimizes chemical waste.
drinking	20433038	Alcohol consumption	Television and video game viewing and its association with substance use by Kentucky elementary school students, 2006.OBJECTIVE: We sought to determine if the number of hours elementary school students viewed television (TV) and video games is associated with substance METHODS: We distributed the California Healthy Kids Survey Elementary School Questionnaire to elementary schools in Kentucky in 2006. A total of 4,691 students, primarily fourth and fifth graders, completed the survey. The students provided responses to questions on topics such as drug use, alcohol use, TV and video game viewing time, and their home life. We analyzed the survey using Chi-square tests and logistic regression. RESULTS: Approximately one-third of respondents indicated substance use, which was defined as alcohol use, illegal drug use, smoking/tobacco use, or sniffing solvents. Significantly more children (28% of those watching &gt; or = 3 hours of TV/video games compared with 20% of those watching greater than zero but &lt; or = 2 hours of TV/video games) reported alcohol use (p&lt;0.05). Similar results were seen for sniffing solvents, with 9% of those watching &gt; or = 3 hours of TV/ video games reporting they sniffed solvents compared with 4% who watched TV/video games for greater than zero but &lt; or = 2 hours (p&lt;0.05). The results of the logistic regression indicated that the odds of <e>drinking</e> alcohol (odds ratio [OR] = 1.48, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.23, 1.79) and sniffing solvents (OR=1.97, 95% CI 1.42, 2.75) were significantly higher for those watching &gt; or = 3 hours of TV/video games compared with those who watched TV/video games for greater than zero but &lt; or = 2 hours. CONCLUSIONS: The hours of TV and video games viewed were associated with alcohol use and sniffing solvents for our sample. However, limitations exist due to the inability to separate TV viewing from video game viewing.
drinking	19507025	Drinking function	Semi-volatile organic compounds and trace elements in the Yangtze River source of <e>drinking</e> water.Determination of 24 semi-volatile organic compounds (SVOCs) and 24 trace elements in water samples was conducted in order to investigate the quality of the Nanjing source of drinking water taken from Yangtze River. The total concentrations of SVOCs and trace elements were in the range of 1,951-11,098 ng/l and 51,274-72,384 microg/l, respectively. No significant seasonal changes were found for the pollutants' concentrations. A primary health risk assessment was carried out to evaluate potential health effects. Risk quotients involving carcinogenic effects for benzo(a)anthracene, benzo(a)pyrene, benzo(b)fluoranthene, dibenz(a,h)anthracene, bis(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate and arsenic were &gt;1 under the worst-case scenario. The results of this study demonstrate the importance of further studies on the environmental health effects of exposure to the source water.
drinking	20164044	Alcohol consumption	Alcohol consumption before and after a significant reduction of alcohol prices in 2004 in Finland: were the effects different across population subgroups?AIMS: To examine trends in adult alcohol consumption by age, gender and education from 1982 to 2008 and evaluate the effects that a significant reduction in alcohol prices in 2004 had on alcohol consumption in different population subgroups. METHODS: The study population comprised respondents aged 25-64 (n = 79,100) replying to nationally representative annual postal surveys from 1982 to 2008 (average response rate 72%). The main measurements were the prevalence of respondents who had drunk at least eight (men) or five (women) drinks in the previous week ('moderate to heavy drinkers') and prevalence of those who weekly (men) or monthly (women) drank six or more drinks on a single occasion ('heavy episodic drinkers') (one 'drink' containing 11-13 g ethanol). Logistic models were used to test differences across population subgroups in the changes in <e>drinking</e>. RESULTS: Following the reduction of alcohol prices in 2004, drinking increased among men and women aged 45-64. Among men, both moderate to heavy drinking and heavy episodic drinking increased in the lowest educational group. Among women, moderate to heavy drinking increased mostly in the lowest and intermediate educational groups, while the highest increases for heavy episodic drinking were in the intermediate and highest female educational groups. CONCLUSION: Alcohol consumption increased especially among those aged 45-64 and among lower educated people following the reduction in alcohol prices in 2004 in Finland.
drinking	20544564	Alcohol consumption	A roadside survey of alcohol and drug use among drivers in British Columbia.OBJECTIVE: The purpose was to determine the prevalence of alcohol and drug use among a random sample of nighttime drivers. METHODS: Drivers were randomly selected from the traffic stream in three cities in British Columbia and asked to provide a breath sample to determine alcohol content and a sample of oral fluid to be tested for the presence of psychoactive drugs. The survey was conducted between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 03:00 a.m. on Wednesday through Saturday nights in June 2008. RESULTS: Of the 1533 vehicles selected, 89 percent of drivers provided a breath sample and 78 percent provided a sample of oral fluid. Key findings include: 10.4 percent of drivers tested positive for drug use. 8.1 percent of drivers had been <e>drinking</e>. 15.5 percent of drivers tested positive for alcohol, drugs, or both. Cannabis and cocaine were the drugs most frequently detected in drivers. Alcohol use among drivers was most common on weekends and during late-night hours; drug use was more evenly distributed across all survey nights and times. Alcohol use was most common among drivers aged 19 to 24 and 25 to 34; drug use was more evenly distributed across all age groups. Though driving after drinking has decreased substantially since previous surveys, the number of drivers with elevated alcohol levels (over 80 mg/dL) was higher than in the past. CONCLUSIONS: The finding that drug use is more common than alcohol use among drivers highlights the need for a unique and separate societal response to the use of drugs by drivers commensurate with the extent of safety risks posed to road users. The observed differences between driving after drug use and driving after drinking have implications for enforcement and prevention.
drinking	20564404	Alcohol consumption	Smoking, alcohol use, obesity, and overall survival from non-Hodgkin lymphoma: a population-based study.BACKGROUND: Smoking, alcohol use, and obesity appear to increase the risk of developing non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), but to the authors' knowledge, few studies to date have assessed their impact on NHL prognosis. METHODS: The association between prediagnosis cigarette smoking, alcohol use, and body mass index (BMI) and overall survival was evaluated in 1286 patients enrolled through population-based registries in the United States from 1998 through 2000. Hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) were estimated using Cox regression, adjusting for clinical and demographic factors. RESULTS: Through 2007, 442 patients had died (34%), and the median follow-up for surviving patients was 7.7 years. Compared with never smokers, former (HR, 1.59; 95% CI, 1.12-2.26) and current (HR, 1.50; 95% CI, 0.97-2.29) smokers had poorer survival, and poorer survival was found to be positively associated with smoking duration, number of cigarettes smoked per day, pack-years of smoking, and shorter time since quitting (all P &lt;0.01). Alcohol use was associated with poorer survival (P = 0.03); compared with nonusers. Those <e>drinking</e> &gt;43.1 g/week (median intake among drinkers) had poorer survival (HR, 1.55; 95% CI, 1.06-2.27), whereas those drinkers consuming less than this amount demonstrated no survival disadvantage (HR, 1.13; 95% CI, 0.75-1.71). Greater BMI was associated with poorer survival (P = 0.046), but the survival disadvantage was only noted among obese individuals (HR, 1.32 for BMI &gt; or = 30 vs BMI 20-24.9; 95% CI, 1.02-1.70). These results held for lymphoma-specific survival and were broadly similar for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and follicular lymphoma. CONCLUSIONS: NHL patients who smoked, consumed alcohol, or were obese before diagnosis were found to have a poorer overall and lymphoma-specific survival.
drinking	20338493	Alcohol consumption	Alcohol consumption and cardiovascular mortality among U.S. adults, 1987 to 2002.OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to determine the association of alcohol consumption and cardiovascular mortality in the U.S. population. BACKGROUND: Alcohol consumption has been associated with a lower risk of cardiovascular disease in cohort studies, but this association has not been prospectively examined in large, detailed, representative samples of the U.S. population. METHODS: We analyzed 9 iterations of the National Health Interview Survey, an annual survey of a nationally representative sample of U.S. adults between 1987 and 2000. Exposures of interest included usual volume, frequency, and quantity of alcohol consumption and binge <e>drinking</e>. Mortality was ascertained through linkage to the National Death Index through 2002. Relative risks were derived from random-effects meta-analyses of weighted, multivariable-adjusted hazard ratios for cardiovascular mortality from individual survey administrations. RESULTS: Light and moderate volumes of alcohol consumption were inversely associated with cardiovascular mortality. Compared with lifetime abstainers, summary relative risks were 0.95 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.88 to 1.02) among lifetime infrequent drinkers, 1.02 (95% CI: 0.94 to 1.11) among former drinkers, 0.69 (95% CI: 0.59 to 0.82) among light drinkers, 0.62 (95% CI: 0.50 to 0.77) among moderate drinkers, and 0.95 (95% CI: 0.82 to 1.10) among heavy drinkers. The magnitude of lower risk was similar in subgroups of sex, age, or baseline health status. There was no simple relation of drinking pattern with risk, but risk was consistently higher among those who consumed &gt;or=3 compared with 2 drinks/drinking day. CONCLUSIONS: In 9 nationally representative samples of U.S. adults, light and moderate alcohol consumption were inversely associated with CVD mortality, even when compared with lifetime abstainers, but consumption above recommended limits was not.
drinking	20230715	Alcohol consumption	An ecological analysis of alcohol-outlet density and campus-reported violence at 32 U.S. colleges.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to assess the relationships among campus violence, student <e>drinking</e> levels, and the physical availability of alcohol at off-campus outlets in a multisite design. METHOD: An ecological analysis of on-campus violence was conducted at 32 U.S. colleges. Dependent variables included campus-reported rates of rape, robbery, assault, and burglary obtained from a U.S. Department of Education online database for the years 2000-2004. Measures of student alcohol use and demographics were obtained from student surveys conducted for the Social Norms Marketing Research Project from 2000 to 2004. Measures of alcohol-outlet density within 3 miles of each campus were obtained from state alcohol-licensing authorities for 2004. RESULTS: Both on- and off-premise alcohol-outlet densities were associated with the campus rape-offense rate but not with the assault or robbery rates. Student drinking level was associated with both campus rape and assault rates but not with the campus robbery rate. The apparent effect of on-premise outlet density on campus rape-offense rates was reduced when student drinking level was included in the model, suggesting that the effect of on-premise outlet density may be mediated by student drinking level. Separate analyses revealed a similar mediational role for off-premise outlet density. CONCLUSIONS: These findings demonstrate that there is a campus-level association between sexual violence and the campus-community alcohol environment.
drinking	19507021	Drinking function	PLFA profiles of <e>drinking</e> water biofilters with different acetate and glucose loadings.The biofilters fed with acetate or glucose and their phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) profiles were investigated to observe the impact of organic matter concentrations on the microbial community structure in the drinking water production system. PLFA markers for bacteria were predominant in all of the biofilters and made up over half of the total PLFA content. PLFA diversity was compared and the biofilters fed with glucose had higher diversity. The Shannon-Wiener (or sometimes known as just Shannon diversity index) indices in the biofilters fed with acetate were from 0.68 to 0.97, while the indices in the biofilters fed with glucose were from 0.95 to 1.25. Principle components analysis showed that carbon sources and media depth were responsible for 68 and 17% of the total PLFA variance, respectively. The results indicated that PLFA analysis could be useful in illustrating microbial community structure in drinking water bioreactors, and microbial community structure was impacted by carbon substrates.
drinking	20391122	Drinking function	Trihalomethanes in <e>drinking</e> water and the risk of death from rectal cancer: does hardness in drinking water matter?The objectives of this study were (1) to examine the relationship between total trihalomethanes (TTHM) levels in public water supplies and risk of rectal cancer development and (2) to determine whether calcium (Ca) and magnesium (Mg) levels in drinking water might modify the effects of TTHM on risk of developing rectal cancer. A matched cancer case-control study was used to investigate the relationship between the risk of death attributed to rectal cancer and exposure to TTHM in drinking water in 53 municipalities in Taiwan. All rectal cancer deaths in the 53 municipalities from 1998 through 2007 were obtained from the Bureau of Vital Statistics of the Taiwan Provincial Department of Health. Controls were deaths from other causes and were pair-matched to cancer cases by gender, year of birth, and year of death. Each matched control was selected randomly from the set of possible controls for each cancer case. Data on TTHM levels in drinking water were collected from the Taiwan Environmental Protection Administration. Information on the levels of Ca and Mg in drinking water was obtained from the Taiwan Water Supply Corporation. The municipality of residence for cancer cases and controls was presumed to be the source of the subject's TTHM, Ca, and Mg exposure via drinking water. Relative to individuals whose TTHM exposure level was &lt;4.9 ppb, the adjusted OR (95% CI) for rectal cancer occurrence was 1.04 (0.88-1.22) for individuals who resided in municipalities served by drinking water with a TTHM exposure &gt;or=4.9 ppb. There was no evidence of an interaction of drinking-water TTHM levels with low Ca intake via drinking water. However, evidence of an interaction was noted between drinking-water TTHM concentrations and Mg intake via drinking water. Our findings showed that the correlation between TTHM exposure and risk of rectal cancer is influenced by Mg in drinking water. Increased knowledge of the interaction between Mg and TTHM in reducing rectal cancer risk will aid in public policymaking and standard setting.
drinking	20154449	Alcohol consumption	Impact of lifestyle on overall cancer risk among Japanese: the Japan Public Health Center-based Prospective Study (JPHC Study).In Japan, cancer has long been recognized as a major component of the overall pattern of disease. Currently, there is a need to implement practical control measures with specific numerical targets appropriate for the Japanese population. Using data from the Japan Public Health Center-based Prospective Study, the author estimated the impact of major risk factors on overall cancer risk among a Japanese population. These risk factors included tobacco smoking, alcohol <e>drinking</e>, body mass index, history of diabetes, physical activity, and metabolic factors and their aggregates. The results show that tobacco smoking and heavy alcohol drinking were significantly positively associated with overall cancer risk, and that total physical activity was significantly inversely associated with the risk of cancer. Although people with a history of diabetes may be at increased risk of cancer, extreme body mass index and metabolic factors in the aggregate had little impact on overall cancer risk in the Japanese population.
drinking	20391273	Alcohol consumption	Alcohol consumption patterns: gay and lesbian urban ethnic minority members.The aim of this study was to assess patterns of alcohol consumption and alcohol related problems in a sample of lesbian and gay NYC residents. There were no differences between lesbian (n = 93) and gay (n = 90) subgroups with regard to alcohol use and health related variables. The average number of <e>drinking</e> days reported for the previous 30 day period was 6.87 (SD 7.0) and 16% of the sample reported consuming more than 4 drinks per drinking day. Age, educational level, and feelings of excessive restlessness were associated with alcohol use. Although there have been reports of increased rates of alcohol use and alcohol related problems in the lesbian and gay population, this is not reflected in this sample.
drinking	20357499	Alcohol consumption	Corticosteroid nonprescription use: a cross-sectional hospital-based study in Basrah.OBJECTIVE: To study the prevalence and attitude of using nonprescription corticosteroids (oral or parenteral formulation of glucocorticosteroids) in Basrah, Iraq. METHODS: A face-to-face model structured interview was used to collect information from 682 patients between January 2006 and December 2008. The following information was obtained: age, gender, marital status, smoking, <e>drinking</e> of alcohol, occupation, educational level, social class and place of residence. RESULTS: Of the 682 (2.6%) subjects using nonprescription corticosteroids most were females: 471 (69%); married: 567 (83%); of low social class: 430 (63.1%); lived in the city center: 475 (69.6%). The majority (569, 83.5%) thought that corticosteroid use was safe and 463 (68.0%) did not feel guilty for using such medications. About half of them (377, 55.3%) were still using drugs at the time of presentation. Three hundred and fifty-seven (52.4%) reported that physicians advised them for the first time to use corticosteroids and the remaining 325 (42.2%) used it to become beautiful or marry. Three hundred and sixty-four (53.4%) patients obtained the drug from the pharmacy and 252 (36.9%) from street vendors. Weight gain was the main indication for use in 342 (50.1%) patients. Almost all had some features of corticosteroid side effects. CONCLUSION: This study showed high use of nonprescription corticosteroid in Basrah, Iraq. We therefore recommend educational programs to alert the population of the untoward side effects of corticosteroids.
drinking	20230718	Alcohol consumption	Transitioning into and out of problem <e>drinking</e> across seven years.OBJECTIVE: The extent to which problem drinkers transition into and out of problem drinking was examined using Markov modeling. METHOD: Study participants (N = 1,350) were randomly sampled from one county's general population and from consecutive admissions to public and private alcohol treatment programs in the same county, and they were assessed at 1-, 3-, 5-, and 7-year follow-ups. At baseline, all met the criteria for problem drinking. Individuals were classified as  problem drinkers  if they reported at least two of three criteria (heavy episodic drinking, social consequences, dependence symptoms according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition) during the prior 12 months. RESULTS: Although all possible patterns were observed, a latent Markov model with heterogeneous transitions and five patterns fit the data. The sampling frame and baseline alcohol severity related to pattern. CONCLUSIONS: The data indicate that, although they do change over time, problem drinkers on the whole are more likely either to remain problem drinkers or to cease to be problem drinkers than they are to move into and out of problem-drinking status. Once they transition out of problem drinking, they are more likely to remain nonproblem drinkers.
drinking	19445987	Drinking function	The effect of the consumption of water on the memory and attention of children.The impact of asking children to drink water during their school days, and its possible influence on school performance, has been little considered using intervention studies. Therefore in the afternoon the cognitive functioning of 40 children (mean of 8 years and 7 months) was assessed twice, once after <e>drinking</e> 300 ml of water and on another day when no water was provided. Memory was assessed by the recall of 15 previously presented objects. Recall was significantly better on the occasions when water had been consumed. The ability to sustain attention was measured by asking the child to respond to a light that followed an auditory warning after a delay of either 3 or 12 s. The ability to sustain attention was not significantly influenced by whether water had been drunk.
drinking	20150721	Alcohol consumption	Relation of Gamma-glutamyltransferase and alcohol <e>drinking</e> with incident diabetes: the HIPOP-OHP study.AIM: Gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) is known to correlate well with alcohol consumption; however, the relation between GGT and diabetes and that between alcohol consumption and diabetes mellitus (DM) is inconsistent. Thus, several questions, such as whether light to moderate drinkers can be considered as low risk for diabetes incidence irrespective of their GGT level, is unresolved. In this study, we investigated the relation of GGT or alcohol drinking with DM incidence considering the body mass index (BMI) in healthy Japanese workers. METHODS: We followed 3095 men who did not have DM at baseline for 4 years. Incident diabetes was defined as a fasting (non-fasting) plasma glucose level of &gt;or=7.0 (11.1) mmol/L, or treatment of diabetes. Multiple adjusted hazard ratios (HR) were calculated using Cox proportional models. RESULTS: Participants with higher GGT (GGT &gt;or=27 IU/L) showed an increased risk of diabetes incidence even when their BMI level was low. Although a U-shaped relation between alcohol drinking and incident diabetes was observed, the risk to light to moderate drinkers (alcohol &lt;23 g/day) was not low if they were either overweight (BMI &gt;or=25 kg/m(2)) or had higher GGT (HR=2.60, p=0.08) or both overweight and higher GGT (HR=3.16, p=0.07) compared with never drinkers without higher GGT and overweight. CONCLUSIONS: Higher GGT was associated with a higher incidence of DM irrespective of drinking status or obesity. Although a U-shaped relation between alcohol drinking and incident diabetes was observed, the risk to light to moderate drinkers was not low if they were either overweight or had higher GGT.
drinking	19495961	Drinking function	Toxicity of the Yangtze River source of <e>drinking</e> water on reproductive system of male mice (Mus musculus).The toxicological tests of the Yangtze River source of drinking water on the reproductive system of male mice (Mus musculus) were conducted in order to protect human and environmental health. The mice were fed with the source water for 90-day and their body weights and relative organ weights were not significantly altered. The results of flow cytometry analysis showed that the relative percentage of the primary spermatocytes (4C) increased significantly, however, significant depletion was observed in the relative percentage of elongated spermatid (HC). These alterations in different germ cell populations were reflected in the various germ cell ratios. The ratio of 1C:4C showed declines while the ratio of 4C:2C increased and the percentage of abnormal sperm increased significantly. There were obvious testicular histopathology distinguishes observed in expansion of interstitial space and reduction in the number and size of Leydig cells. The data demonstrated that the source of drinking water from Yangtze River had actual toxicity on male mice reproductive system and suggested that the source water pollution should be controlled for protection of human health.
drinking	19501780	Drinking function	Should children drink more water?: the effects of <e>drinking</e> water on cognition in children.While dehydration has well-documented negative effects on adult cognition, there is little research on hydration and cognitive performance in children. We investigated whether having a drink of water improved children's performance on cognitive tasks. Fifty-eight children aged 7-9 years old were randomly allocated to a group that received additional water or a group that did not. Results showed that children who drank additional water rated themselves as significantly less thirsty than the comparison group (p=0.002), and they performed better on visual attention tasks (letter cancellation, p=0.02; spot the difference memory tasks, ps=0.019 and 0.014).
drinking	20109077	Drinking function	Legionella in an ice machine may be a sentinel for <e>drinking</e> water contamination.
drinking	20201818	Alcohol consumption	Pre-clinical evidence that corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptor antagonists are promising targets for pharmacological treatment of alcoholism.Alcoholism is a chronic disorder characterized by cycling periods of excessive ethanol consumption, withdrawal, abstinence and relapse, which is associated with progressive changes in central corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptor signaling. CRF and urocortin peptides act by binding to the CRF type 1 (CRF1R) or the CRF type 2 (CRF2R) receptors, both of which have been implicated in the regulation of neurobiological responses to ethanol. The current review provides a comprehensive overview of preclinical evidence from studies involving rodents that when viewed together, suggest a promising role for CRFR antagonists in the treatment of alcohol abuse disorders. CRFR antagonists protect against excessive ethanol intake resulting from ethanol dependence without influencing ethanol intake in non-dependent animals. Similarly, CRFR antagonists block excessive binge-like ethanol <e>drinking</e> in non-dependent mice but do not alter ethanol intake in mice drinking moderate amounts of ethanol. CRFR antagonists also protect against increased ethanol intake and relapse-like behaviors precipitated by exposure to a stressful event. Additionally, CRFR antagonists attenuate the negative emotional responses associated with ethanol withdrawal. The protective effects of CRFR antagonists are modulated by CRF1R. Finally, recent evidence has emerged suggesting that CRF2R agonists may also be useful for treating alcohol abuse disorders.
drinking	19434221	Drinking function	Maternal consumption of an aqueous extract of Hibiscus sabdariffa during lactation accelerates postnatal weight and delays onset of puberty in female offspring.The present study was designed to investigate whether maternal consumption of aqueous extract of Hibiscus sabdariffa (HS) during lactation will affect the postnatal growth and onset of puberty in the female offspring. Eighteen in-bred virgin female Sprague-Dawley rats aged between 10-12 weeks and weighing 125 +/- 5.5g (mean +/- SEM) with two consecutive regular 4-day estrus cycles were randomly assigned to one of three groups of 6 rats per group. One group had tap water (Control); another had 0.6g/100ml while the third group had 1.8g/100ml in their <e>drinking</e> water throughout lactation (21 days). Results showed that HS consumption during lactation significantly (P &lt; 0.05) decreased maternal fluid and food intake, increased postnatal weight gain and delays the onset of puberty in the female offspring.
drinking	20155593	Alcohol consumption	Is self-reported  moderate  <e>drinking</e> in the cardiovascular benefit range associated with alcoholic behavior? A population based study.This article aims at identifying a threshold number of drinks per day beyond which there is a high risk of developing alcoholic behavior that would enable physicians to more confidently support the use of alcohol for cardiovascular risk prevention. In a randomly selected, population-based sample of 2,042 adults 45 years or older, we graded alcohol drinking behavior using the Self-Administered Alcoholism Screening Test, quantified alcohol amount by questionnaire, and assessed the prevalence of cardiovascular disease (coronary, peripheral, or cerebrovascular disease) by medical record review. Although optimal alcohol use (&lt; or = 2 drinks/day) was associated with reduced odds of cardiovascular disease, 43% of alcoholics and 82% of problem drinkers reported alcohol use in the optimal range as well. The association of alcohol use in the optimal range with alcohol-related behavioral problems supports the reluctance in physicians from recommending alcohol use for cardiovascular benefit, not withstanding the underreporting of alcohol use by alcoholics.
drinking	20157720	Drinking function	Biodistribution of (137)Cs in a mouse model of chronic contamination by ingestion and effects on the hematopoietic system.The aim of this work was to define the possible occurrence of hematological changes during the course of a chronic ingestion of (137)Cs. A mouse model was used, with ingestion through <e>drinking</e> water with a cesium concentration of 20 kBq l(-1). Ingestion started in parent animals before mating, and (137)Cs intake and its effect on the hematopoietic system was studied in offspring at various ages between birth and 20 weeks. (137)Cs content was measured in various organs, indicating that (137)Cs was distributed throughout the organism including lympho-hematopoietic organs, i.e., femurs, spleen and thymus. However, we did not observe any effect on the hematopoietic system, whatever the parameter used. In fact, blood cell counts, mononuclear cell counts and progenitor frequency in bone marrow and spleen, and Flt3-ligand, Erythropoietin, G-CSF and SDF-1 concentration in plasma remained unchanged when compared to control animals. Moreover, phenotypic analysis did not show any change in the proportions of bone marrow cell populations. These results indicate that, although (137)Cs was found in all organs implicated in the hematopoietic system, this did not induce any changes in bone marrow function.
drinking	19680974	Drinking function	Predicted intake of trace elements and minerals via household <e>drinking</e> water by 6-year-old children from Krakow (Poland). Part 4: Copper.The aim of this study was to assess exposure of children to copper (Cu) from household drinking water (DW). DW samples were collected between 1997 and 2004 in approximately 650 households and pre-schools using a double-sampling method (morning - W1; evening - W2). The study group comprised approximately 300 children (5-7 years old) living in Krakow (urban, peripheral) and rural areas in southern Poland. Cu concentrations were determined by flame atomic absorption spectrometry. There was no significant relationship between the sampling period and Cu concentration, but statistically significant differences were found between urban and non-urban (rural, peripheral) sites and between morning and evening samples. Geometric means of Cu concentration in evening DW (95% confidence interval, in microg L(-1)) were 8 (1-110), 20 (1-274) and 12 (0-364) in urban, peripheral and rural sites, respectively. DW contamination after overnight standing was comparable in all sites (average increase approximately 20 microg Cu L(-1)). The adopted threshold of 100 microg Cu L(-1) was exceeded in evening DW by 3.6 and 15% in urban and non-urban households, respectively. Exceedance of the EC limit (2 mg L(-1)) was not significant. The mean predicted contribution of evening DW to Cu intake by children were 18-37 microg day(-1) or 0.8-1.6 microg kg(-1) bw day(-1) but were 2-3-fold higher for morning DW. The Polish RDA (1 mg Cu day(-1)) was exceeded for morning (evening) DW in 3.7 (0.2)% of children, with a mean intake of 159 (118)% of RDA. The observed copper levels and predicted intakes can be considered low and should not raise nutritional or toxicological concerns for the age group studied. Nevertheless, due to overnight contamination, the suggestion that the stagnant portion of drinking water should be discarded remains valid.
drinking	20368572	Alcohol consumption	Testis cancer survivors' health behaviors: comparison with age-matched relative and demographically matched population controls.PURPOSE: To determine the prevalence rate of health behaviors in testis cancer survivors and to determine whether the rate of health behaviors in survivors was significantly different than those of their age-matched relative controls and a population-based control group matched for age, sex, education, and income. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The health behaviors of 162 testis cancer survivors were compared with their age-matched relative controls (n = 74) and an age-, sex-, education-, and income-matched population-based control group (n ranged from 1,123 to 9,775). Health behaviors were assessed with the telephone-administered Behavioral Risk Factor and Surveillance Survey. RESULTS: Nearly one in five testis cancer survivors reported current smoking and one third reported problem <e>drinking</e>. Only 11% reported having at least five servings of fruits and vegetables per day. Compared with their relative controls, the survivors were more likely to engage in regular exercise. For those participants who drank, survivors were twice as likely to engage in problem drinking and averaged a higher number of drinks compared to their Centers for Disease Control (CDC) controls. Survivors were also half as likely to have at least five servings of fruits and vegetables per day compared with the CDC controls. CONCLUSION: The overall picture regarding testis cancer survivors' health behaviors was mixed compared with the relative and CDC control groups. Our results suggest that reduced alcohol use and increased fruit and vegetable consumption may be important targets for future disease prevention in testis cancer survivors.
drinking	20180660	Alcohol consumption	Dimensions of problem <e>drinking</e> among young adult restaurant workers.BACKGROUND: Nationwide surveys identify food service workers as heavy alcohol users. OBJECTIVES: This article analyzes dimensions and correlates of problem drinking among young adult food service workers. METHODS: A telephone survey of national restaurant chain employees yielded 1,294 completed surveys. RESULTS: Hazardous alcohol consumption patterns were seen in 80% of men and 64% of women. Multivariate analysis showed that different dimensions of problem drinking measured by the AUDIT were associated with workers' demographic characteristics, smoking behaviour, and job category. CONCLUSIONS AND SCIENTIFIC SIGNIFICANCE: These findings offer evidence of extremely high rates of alcohol misuse among young adult restaurant workers.
drinking	19996715	Drinking function	<e>Drinking</e> water hardness and cardiovascular disease.
drinking	20162260	Drinking function	Perchlorate in tap water, groundwater, surface waters, and bottled water from China and its association with other inorganic anions and with disinfection byproducts.Perchlorate is a potent thyroid hormone-disrupting compound. <e>Drinking</e> water is one of the major sources of human exposure to perchlorate. Little is known about the occurrence of perchlorate in waters from China. In this study, water samples (n = 300) collected from 15 locations in 13 provinces and municipalities were analyzed for the presence of perchlorate. In addition, other inorganic anions that commonly occur in water--iodide, bromide, and nitrate--and the disinfection byproducts, bromate, chlorate, and chlorite were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography interfaced with tandem mass spectrometry. Perchlorate was detected in 86% of the samples analyzed, at concentrations ranging from &lt;0.02 to 54.4 microg l(-1) (mean +/- SD 2.20 +/- 6.39 microg l(-1); median 0.62 microg l(-1)). Mean concentrations of perchlorate in tap water, groundwater, surface waters, and bottled water were 2.46, 3.04, 2.82, and 0.22 microg l(-1), respectively. Significant positive correlations were found between the concentrations of perchlorate and nitrate, perchlorate and chlorate, bromide and iodide, and nitrate and iodide.
drinking	20308329	Alcohol consumption	Effects of the cognition-enhancing agent ABT-239 on fetal ethanol-induced deficits in dentate gyrus synaptic plasticity.Prenatal ethanol exposure causes deficits in hippocampal synaptic plasticity and learning. At present, there are no clinically effective pharmacotherapeutic interventions for these deficits. In this study, we examined whether the cognition-enhancing agent 4-(2-{2-[(2R)-2-methylpyrrolidinyl]ethyl}-benzofuran-5-yl) benzonitrile (ABT-239), a histamine H(3) receptor antagonist, could ameliorate fetal ethanol-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) deficits. Long-Evans rat dams consumed a mean of 2.82 g/kg ethanol during a 4-h period each day. This voluntary <e>drinking</e> pattern produced a mean peak serum ethanol level of 84 mg/dl. Maternal weight gain, offspring litter size, and birth weights were not different between ethanol-consuming and control groups. A stimulating electrode was implanted in the entorhinal cortical perforant path, and a recording electrode was implanted in the dorsal dentate gyrus of urethane-anesthetized adult male offspring. Baseline input/output responses were not affected either by prenatal ethanol exposure or by 1 mg/kg ABT-239 administered 2 h before data collection. No differences were observed between prenatal treatment groups when a 10-tetanus train protocol was used to elicit LTP. However, LTP elicited by 3 tetanizing trains was markedly impaired by prenatal ethanol exposure compared with control. This fetal ethanol-induced LTP deficit was reversed by ABT-239. In contrast, ABT-239 did not enhance LTP in control offspring using the 3-tetanus train protocol. These results suggest that histamine H(3) receptor antagonists may have utility for treating fetal ethanol-associated synaptic plasticity and learning deficits. Furthermore, the differential effect of ABT-239 in fetal alcohol offspring compared with controls raises questions about the impact of fetal ethanol exposure on histaminergic modulation of excitatory neurotransmission in affected offspring.
drinking	19684272	Drinking function	<e>Drinking</e> behavior in nursery pigs: determining the accuracy between an automatic water meter versus human observers.Assimilating accurate behavioral events over a long period can be labor-intensive and relatively expensive. If an automatic device could accurately record the duration and frequency for a given behavioral event, it would be a valuable alternative to the traditional use of human observers for behavioral studies. Therefore, the objective of this study was to determine the accuracy in the time spent at the waterer and the number of visits to the waterer by individually housed nursery pigs between human observers scoring video files using Observer software (OBS) and an automatic water meter Hobo (WM, control) affixed onto the waterline. Eleven PIC USA genotype gilts (22 +/- 2 d of age; 6.5 +/- 1.4 kg of BW) were housed individually in pens with ad libitum access to a corn-based starter ration and one nipple waterer. Behavior was collected on d 0 (day of weaning), 7, and 14 of the trial using 1 color camera positioned over 4 attached pens and a RECO-204 DVR at 1 frame per second. For the OBS method, 2 experienced observers recorded drinking behavior from the video files, which was defined as when the gilt placed her mouth over the nipple waterer. Data were analyzed using nonparametric methods and the general linear model and regression procedures in SAS. The experimental unit was the individual pen housing 1 gilt. The GLM model included the method of observation (WM vs. OBS) and time (24 h) as variables, and the gilt nested within method was used as the error term. Gilts consumed more water (P = 0.04) on d 14 than on d 0. The time of day affected (P &lt; 0.001) the number of visits and the time spent at the waterer regardless of the method. However, the OBS method underestimated (P &lt; 0.001) the number of visits to the waterer (3.48 +/- 0.33 visits/h for OBS vs. 4.94 +/- 0.33 for WM) and overestimated (P &lt; 0.001) the time spent at the waterer (22.6 +/- 1.46 s/h for OBS vs. 13.9 +/- 1.43 for WM) compared with WM. The relationship between the 2 methods for prediction of time spent at the waterer and number of visits made by the gilts was weak (R(2) = 0.56 and 0.69, respectively). Collectively, these data indicate that the use of the traditional OBS method for quantifying drinking behavior in pigs can be misleading. Quantifying drinking behavior and perhaps other behavioral events via the OBS method must be more accurately validated.
drinking	20224885	Alcohol consumption	Alcohol <e>drinking</e>, cigarette smoking, and the development of squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus.
drinking	20050065	Drinking function	[Effect of the <e>drinking</e> water changed by the hydrogen-oxygen composition on some biochemical parameters of experimental animals]The biological action of the drinking waters containing different deuterium levels (7, 30, 60, 90, 250, and 1000 mg/l) on the activity of N-acetyl-b-D-glucosaminidase, catalase, the content of triglycerides in the serum and liver was studied in a chronic (12-month) experiment on outbred albino mature male rats. The animals taking the water containing 145 mg/l of deuterium were chosen as a control group. The biochemical studies showed the negative effect of the waters on some links of the organism's defense of the organism. The most pronounced changes were noted in the group of animals taking the water containing 1000 mg/l of deuterium.
drinking	19760484	Drinking function	Centrally administered ghrelin potently inhibits water intake induced by angiotensin II and hypovolemia in rats.Ghrelin is a potent, centrally acting orexigenic hormone. Recently, we showed that centrally administered ghrelin is a potent antidipsogenic hormone in 24-h water deprived rats. In this study, we examined the effect of intracerebroventricular (icv) injection of ghrelin on angiotensin II (AII)-induced water intake in rats. We also examined the effects of icv injection of ghrelin on <e>drinking</e> induced by intraperitoneal injection of an isotonic polyethylene glycol (PEG) solution that causes isotonic hypovolemia. Water intake induced by the icv injection of AII or ip injection of PEG was significantly reduced after icv injection of ghrelin, although food intake was stimulated by the hormone. The drinking induced by AII was also inhibited by the icv administration of 4alpha-phorbol 12, 13-didecanoate, an agonist of the osmosensitive TRPV4 channel. This study showed that ghrelin is a potent antidipsogenic peptide by antagonizing general dipsogenic mechanisms including those activated by AII and hypovolemia in rats.
drinking	20230723	Alcohol consumption	Concordance of adolescent reports of friend alcohol use, smoking, and deviant behavior as predicted by quality of relationship and demographic variables.OBJECTIVE: The strongest predictor of adolescent alcohol use is affiliation with friends who drink, use other drugs, or engage in deviant behavior. Most studies measure this variable using adolescent perceptions of friend problem behavior, but some research suggests these perceptions may be inaccurate. The current study's objective was to determine the concordance between adolescent perceptions of their friend's <e>drinking</e>, smoking, and deviant behavior and the friend's self-report. Relationship characteristics and demographic variables were explored as predictors of report concordance. METHOD: Participants (targets) were 232 adolescents ages 13 or 15 (53% girls) from Wave 9 of the Tween to Teen Project. At least one reciprocally endorsed friend participated for 59% of target adolescents (n = 232/390). Targets completed computer-assisted interviews. Friends completed telephone interviews. RESULTS: The relations between target perceptions of friend and friend self-reports of drinking and smoking were statistically significant (p &lt; .001), but concordance was driven largely by agreement regarding the absence of behavior. Although 22% of friends drank and 8.6% smoked, fewer than 60% of targets perceived these behaviors. Deviant behavior reports correlated moderately (r = .45), with 51% of adolescents underreporting friend deviance. There were few predictors of report concordance. CONCLUSIONS: Adolescents and their friends generally provided concordant reports of one another's drinking and smoking behaviors, but most agreement concerned the absence of behavior; most targets provided underreports of their friend's engagement in deviant behaviors. These findings suggest that adolescent perceptions of friends' problem behavior do not exaggerate the involvement of their friends in these behaviors.
drinking	19499332	Drinking function	Effects of the Yangtze River source of <e>drinking</e> water on metabolites of Mus musculus.The effects of the Yangtze River source of drinking water on metabolites of mouse (Mus musculus) were implemented to observe the environmental health issue of the water by use of the 1H nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy-based metabonomics. All the sampled mice were treated for 90 days. There were 20 organic pollutants discovered in the water with total concentration of 9.41 microg/l. The NMR spectra for the sampled mice were different at delta2.06, delta2.24 and delta5.22. The concentrations of alanine, glycoprotein, acetone and trimethylamine-N-oxide in the source water group mice were decreased but that of creatinine and glucose were increased, which indicated that hepatotoxicity and kidney dysfunction occurred. There were six parameters for the source water group mice were different or extremely different from that of the control group. And these metabolites are responsible for separation of the data along PC1 and PC2 which may be used as biomarkers to indicate the source water pollution. The results indicate that 1H NMR-based metabonomic approach is a useful technique to test toxicity of xenobiotics on metabolites for observation of the environmental health issue of source water.
drinking	19681402	Drinking function	[Open water systems for species-appropriate housing of Peking ducks--effects on behaviour, feather quality and plugged up nostrils]At present in Germany Peking ducks in commercial housing are on ground with litter and nipple drinkers only and there is no access to open water. With this study we investigated if open water drinkers can affect behaviour and health of ducks positively. In this investigation ten fattening trials with 11 424 ducks, kept with straw, were analyzed. 25% of the compartment (32 m2) were covered with perforated grid, with one of the tested water systems (Nipple drinker, Sparkcup, Shower, Hollow and Round drinker and modified Round drinker) installed. Besides parts of the behaviour of ducks, animal health and hygiene and also economic factors were taken into account. In contrast to pens with nipple-drinkers only, the ducks in pens with open water troughs/showers had the opportunity to exhibit their natural <e>drinking</e> behaviour and water associated activities, such as straining and preening the plumage with water in accordance with the animal welfare requirements. In the free-choice pens, the open water systems were significantly preferred, and over a 24-hour period, the ducks in watering areas with open water troughs showed higher activity. Limiting the access to the open water systems (4, 6 and 8 hours) led to more intense use per time unit. Ducks with access to nipple drinkers only showed a significantly higher percentage of plugged up nostrils than animals from pens with open water drinkers (p &lt; or = 0.05). Open water drinkers also had a positive impact on the plumage condition.The open water drinking systems were very well accepted by the animals and are, concerning behaviour and animal health, an improvement in housing systems of Peking ducks.
drinking	19578099	Drinking function	Abnormal fluid homeostasis in apelin receptor knockout mice.The apelinergic system, comprised of apelin and its G protein-coupled receptor (APJ; APLNR as given in MGI Database), is expressed within key regions of the central nervous system associated with arginine vasopressin (AVP) synthesis and release as well as in structures involved in the control of <e>drinking</e> behaviour, including the magnocellular neurones of the hypothalamus, circumventricular organs, and the pituitary gland. This localisation is indicative of a possible functional role in fluid homeostasis. We investigated a role for APJ in the regulation of fluid balance using mice deficient for the receptor. Male APJ wild-type and knockout (APJ(-/-)) mice were housed in metabolic cages to allow determination of water intake and urine volume and osmolality. When provided with free access to water, APJ(-/-) mice drank significantly less than wild-types, while their urine volume and osmolality did not differ. Water deprivation for 24 h significantly reduced urine volume and increased osmolality in wild-type but not in APJ(-/-) mice. Baseline plasma AVP concentration increased comparably in both wild-type and APJ(-/-) mice following dehydration; however, APJ(-/-) mice were unable to concentrate their urine to the same extent as wild-type mice in response to the V2 agonist desmopressin. Analysis of c-fos (Fos as given in MGI Database) mRNA expression in response to dehydration showed attenuation of expression within the subfornical organ, accentuated expression in the paraventricular nucleus, but no differences in expression in the supraoptic nucleus nor median pre-optic nucleus in APJ(-/-) mice compared with wild-type. These findings demonstrate a physiological role for APJ in mechanisms of water intake and fluid retention and suggest an anti-diuretic effect of apelin in vivo.
drinking	20176332	Drinking function	Aluminum affects glial system and behavior of rats.Aluminum (Al) has been associated with neuronal dysfunction. These neuronal changes may involve glial alterations. We intend to evaluate the consequence of Al on the glial system and the behavior of rats exposed chronically to 0.3% of aluminum chloride in <e>drinking</e> water during 4 months in adulthood (A) or since intra-uterine age (IU); animals from this latter group were sacrificed at four months of age. Our data show an intense glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-immunoreactivity with a high density of astrocytes in both treated groups compared with controls. However, in IU rats, astrocytes display prominent glial cell bodies and processes. A and IU rat groups perform a significantly reduced locomotor activity. However, using the dark/light box test, the IU rats prefer to spend more time in the enlightened compartment compared to other groups. Behavioral and glial changes caused by Al exposure bring support for the role of Al in brain dysfunction involving glial alterations.
drinking	20004657	Drinking function	Effect of pioglitazone on insulin resistance in fructose-<e>drinking</e> rats correlates with AGEs/RAGE inhibition and block of NADPH oxidase and NF kappa B activation.Insulin resistance, which may influence Alzheimer's disease, is associated with an increase in circulating advanced glycosylation end products (AGEs) and the increased expression of the receptor for AGEs (RAGE). Inhibition of AGE/RAGE system has been shown to attenuate neuronal damage. Specific ligands for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma), which have proven effective in the animal models of Alzheimer's disease and other neuroinflammatory diseases, have been shown to decrease RAGE expression. Here we investigated the effect of PPARgamma agonist, pioglitazone, on cognition function and AGE/RAGE system in a rodent model of insulin resistance, the fructose-drinking rats. Six-week-old male Wistar rats were fed a standard commercial diet and water without (control) or with 10% fructose for 16weeks. The animals were randomly divided into 4 groups (n=10): non-treated and water-drinking rats (control group); pioglitazone-treated and water-drinking (control treatment group); non-treated and fructose-drinking rats (fructose group) and pioglitazone-treated and fructose-drinking rats (fructose treatment group). Pioglitazone was given at the dose of 10mg/kgd by gavage for the last 12weeks of the 16-week period. The results showed that pioglitazone treatment reduced the escape latency in Morris water maze test, decreased AGE/RAGE expression in the cerebral cortex of fructose-drinking rats. Furthermore, we found that the expression of p47phox component of NAPDH oxidase, phosphorylated nuclear factor NF-kappaB p65, tumor necrosis factor alpha and interleukin-1 beta was significantly increased in the cerebral cortex of fructose-drinking rats (P&lt;0.001). These effects were reversed by pioglitazone treatment (P&lt;0.01 or 0.001). Taken together, these findings suggest that the activation of AGEs-RAGE system contribute to the brain damage of insulin resistance. Pioglitazone administration can improve cognition function probably related to its effect of decreasing the activation of AGEs-RAGE system, which correlates with block of NAPDH oxidase and NF-kappaB activation in this rodent model of insulin resistance.
drinking	20145682	Alcohol consumption	Hazardous <e>drinking</e>: not just an issue for the minority of drinkers.
drinking	20186179	Alcohol consumption	Tobacco, alcohol and drug use among dental undergraduates at one English university in 1998 and 2008.OBJECTIVE: To estimate the prevalence of tobacco, alcohol and drug use among dental undergraduates at one English university in 2008, and compare these with prevalence in 1998. DESIGN: Cross-sectional survey using an anonymous self-report questionnaire. SUBJECTS AND METHODS: In 2008 all 384 dental undergraduates at one English university were sent a questionnaire in order to obtain data on the frequency and amount of tobacco, alcohol, cannabis and other illicit drugs used before and during their time as a dental undergraduate. The same survey had been conducted on dental undergraduates at the university 10 years earlier. RESULTS: Tobacco smoking was reported by 27% of males and 13.5% of females, a reduction from 1998 (42% of males and 32% of females) being significant among females. 63% of males and 69.5% of females reported <e>drinking</e> alcohol: significantly fewer than in 1998 (82% males and 90% females). Binge drinking was reported by 69.5% of males compared to 56% in 1998. In females 66% binged compared to 58.5% in 1998. The increase in males was significant. 62% of males and 68% of females had never used cannabis compared to 38% in males and 50.5% of females in 1998, a significant reduction. A significant reduction in amphetamine use was reported among both male and female undergraduates in 2008 compared to 1998 and a significant increase in amyl nitrate use was reported by females. Reported illicit drug use was associated with alcohol drinking, and particularly with tobacco use. CONCLUSION: Dental undergraduates at one English university in 2008 when compared to those in 1998 are reported to be significantly less likely to drink alcohol, use cannabis and amphetamines. If female, they are significantly less likely to smoke tobacco and overestimate the number of units of alcohol they can safely consume in a week, but more likely to use amyl nitrate. If male, those who drink alcohol are significantly less likely to drink at a level of increased risk, but more likely to binge drink.
drinking	20230077	Alcohol consumption	Daily work-family conflict and alcohol use: testing the cross-level moderation effects of peer <e>drinking</e> norms and social support.In the current study, we conducted daily telephone interviews with a sample of Chinese workers (N = 57) for 5 weeks to examine relationships between daily work-family conflict and alcohol use. Drawn from the tension reduction theory and the stressor-vulnerability model, daily work-family conflict variables were hypothesized to predict employees' daily alcohol use. Further, social variables (i.e., peer drinking norms, family support, and coworker support) were hypothesized to moderate the relationship between work-family conflict and alcohol use. Results showed that daily work-to-family conflict but not family-to-work conflict had a significant within-subject main effect on daily alcohol use. In addition, there was significant between-subject variation in the relationship between work-to-family conflict and alcohol use, which was predicted by peer drinking norms, coworker support, and family support. The current findings shed light on the daily health behavior consequences of work-family conflict and provide important theoretical and practical implications.
drinking	20195444	Alcohol consumption	Categorizing US state <e>drinking</e> practices and consumption trends.US state alcohol consumption patterns and trends are examined in order to identify groups of states with similar drinking habits or cultures. Rates of heavy drinking and current abstention and per capita apparent consumption levels are used to categorize states. Six state groupings were identified: North Central and New England with the highest consumption and heavy drinking levels; Middle Atlantic, Pacific and South Coast with moderate drinking levels; and Dry South with the lowest drinking levels. Analyses of relationships between beer and spirits series for states within groups as compared to those in different groups failed to clearly indicate group cohesiveness.
drinking	20230714	Alcohol consumption	Anticipated versus actual alcohol consumption during 21st birthday celebrations.OBJECTIVE: The 21st birthday celebration is often associated with excessive alcohol consumption. The current study examined whether individuals consume more alcohol than anticipated during their celebration and whether situational factors contribute to prediction errors. METHOD: College students (N = 150; 50% female) who planned to drink during their 21st birthday celebration were contacted by telephone 1 week before their celebrations and asked about their birthday plans, including anticipated alcohol consumption. The week after the celebration, in-person semi-structured interviews and self-report measures were administered to obtain information about the 21st birthday celebration, including type and amount of alcohol consumed, pace of <e>drinking</e>, influential peer involvement, and engagement in 21st birthday traditions. RESULTS: The majority of 21st birthday celebrants consumed more alcohol than they anticipated, with men showing greater prediction error than women. Situational factors were positively associated with the discrepancy between anticipated and actual alcohol consumption. CONCLUSIONS: Drinking shots, drinking at a fast pace, celebrating with influential peers, and engaging in 21st birthday traditions were associated with drinking more alcohol than anticipated during 21st birthday celebrations. Findings suggest future interventions that target situational factors could reduce excessive 21st birthday drinking.
drinking	19536161	Drinking function	The effect of acute fluid consumption on measures of impedance and percent body fat estimated using segmental bioelectrical impedance analysis.BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: To determine the effect of acute fluid consumption on measures of impedance and percent body fat (%BF) estimated using segmental bioelectrical impedance analysis (SBIA). SUBJECTS/METHODS: Seventy-six healthy, recreationally active adults (41 women; 35 men) volunteered to participate in this study (mean+/-s.d.; age, 21.0+/-1.6 years; body mass index, 25.0+/-3.2 kg/m2). Subjects had their body composition assessed on three separate occasions. After a baseline measurement, subjects consumed 591 ml of water (H2O), a carbohydrate/electrolyte drink (CHOE) or received nothing (CON). Subjects were reassessed 20, 40 and 60 min following (POST) the baseline measure in each fluid condition. RESULTS: Twenty minutes after <e>drinking</e> a H2O or CHOE beverage, %BF (1.1 and 1.2%), impedance (12 and 14 Omega) and body mass increased significantly (P&lt;0.001). During the CON trial, %BF (0.3 and 0.5%) and impedance (7 and 11 Omega) also increased significantly above baseline values at 40 and 60 min POST. However, the normal hourly variability was significantly (P&lt;0.009) less than the observed fluid-induced %BF alterations. The greatest %BF increases were observed in the lightest subjects, who were women. Fluid type had no effect on the magnitude of change POST. CONCLUSIONS: Twenty minutes after drinking, %BF estimates increased approximately 1.0% due to elevations in impedance and body mass. As such, we recommend adhering to the pretest fluid restriction guideline to avoid fluid-induced alterations in SBIA body composition measures. In addition, use of a consistent testing schedule may minimize normal %BF variation over time.
drinking	20371762	Alcohol consumption	Fruit and vegetable intake and overall cancer risk in the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC).BACKGROUND: It is widely believed that cancer can be prevented by high intake of fruits and vegetables. However, inconsistent results from many studies have not been able to conclusively establish an inverse association between fruit and vegetable intake and overall cancer risk. METHODS: We conducted a prospective analysis of the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC) cohort to assess relationships between intake of total fruits, total vegetables, and total fruits and vegetables combined and cancer risk during 1992-2000. Detailed information on the dietary habit and lifestyle variables of the cohort was obtained. Cancer incidence and mortality data were ascertained, and hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were estimated using multivariable Cox regression models. Analyses were also conducted for cancers associated with tobacco and alcohol after stratification for tobacco smoking and alcohol <e>drinking</e>. RESULTS: Of the initial 142 605 men and 335 873 women included in the study, 9604 men and 21 000 women were identified with cancer after a median follow-up of 8.7 years. The crude cancer incidence rates were 7.9 per 1000 person-years in men and 7.1 per 1000 person-years in women. Associations between reduced cancer risk and increased intake of total fruits and vegetables combined and total vegetables for the entire cohort were similar (200 g/d increased intake of fruits and vegetables combined, HR = 0.97, 95% CI = 0.96 to 0.99; 100 g/d increased intake of total vegetables, HR = 0.98, 95% CI = 0.97 to 0.99); intake of fruits showed a weaker inverse association (100 g/d increased intake of total fruits, HR = 0.99, 95% CI = 0.98 to 1.00). The reduced risk of cancer associated with high vegetable intake was restricted to women (HR = 0.98, 95% CI = 0.97 to 0.99). Stratification by alcohol intake suggested a stronger reduction in risk in heavy drinkers and was confined to cancers caused by smoking and alcohol. CONCLUSIONS: A very small inverse association between intake of total fruits and vegetables and cancer risk was observed in this study. Given the small magnitude of the observed associations, caution should be applied in their interpretation.
drinking	20429153	Drinking function	Carcinogens in <e>drinking</e> water: the epidemiologic evidence.
drinking	20384427	Alcohol consumption	Relations between heavy <e>drinking</e>, gender, and substance-free reinforcement.Behavioral economic theory and laboratory research have suggested that substance abuse may be associated with diminished engagement in enjoyable substance-free activities (substance-free reinforcement). However, college students, in particular men, have reported numerous social benefits from drinking that might mitigate the expected inverse relation between drinking and substance-free reinforcement. In this study, we examined the relations between college student heavy drinking, gender, and several categories of substance-free reinforcement (peer, dating, sexual, school, and family activities). Participants were 246 undergraduate students who were classified as a function of their reported frequency of heavy drinking during a typical week in the past month (120 heavy drinkers, 126 light drinkers). Heavy drinking was associated with significantly higher substance-free peer and sexual reinforcement. This association was gender invariant and remained significant in multiple regression models that controlled for gender, ethnicity, and fraternity or sorority membership. Substance-free reinforcement did not predict frequency of heavy drinking in models that included levels of substance-related reinforcement. The results indicate that college student heavy drinking is not associated with global deficits in substance-free reinforcement and is instead associated with increased peer and sexual activity that occurs outside the context of drinking or drug use. Prevention programs should help students to compensate for the potential loss of social reinforcement associated with reductions in drinking.
drinking	20151481	Drinking function	My grandson wants to sing in a  screamo  band.  I told him he's going to hurt his voice, but he says he can prevent that by <e>drinking</e> a lot of water.  What do you think?
drinking	19545357	Drinking function	Health beliefs about bottled water: a qualitative study.BACKGROUND: There has been a consistent rise in bottled water consumption over the last decade. Little is known about the health beliefs held by the general public about bottled water as this issue is not addressed by the existing quantitative literature. The purpose of this study was to improve understanding of the public's health beliefs concerning bottled mineral water, and the extent to which these beliefs and other views they hold, influence <e>drinking</e> habits. METHODS: A qualitative study using semi-structured interviews, with 23 users of the Munrow Sports Centre on the University of Birmingham campus. RESULTS: Health beliefs about bottled water could be classified as general or specific beliefs. Most participants believed that bottled water conferred general health benefits but were unsure as to the nature of these. In terms of specific health beliefs, the idea that the minerals in bottled water conferred a health benefit was the most commonly cited. There were concerns over links between the plastic bottle itself and cancer. Participants believed that bottled water has a detrimental effect on the environment. Convenience, cost and taste were influential factors when making decisions as to whether to buy bottled water; health beliefs were unimportant motivating factors. CONCLUSION: The majority of participants believed that bottled water has some health benefits. However, these beliefs played a minor role in determining bottled water consumption and are unlikely to be helpful in explaining recent trends in bottled water consumption if generalised to the UK population. The health beliefs elicited were supported by scientific evidence to varying extents. Most participants did not feel that bottled water conferred significant, if any, health benefits over tap water.
drinking	20217944	Alcohol consumption	The feasibility of providing community pharmacy-based services for alcohol misuse: a literature review.OBJECTIVES: Excessive consumption of alcohol is a major public health concern. The use of community pharmacies and pharmacists as sources of public health information and services is gaining greater recognition. The objective of this review was to provide an overview of the evidence on the feasibility, effectiveness and acceptability of providing community pharmacy-based services to address the excessive consumption of alcohol. METHODS: Electronic databases were searched for the period 1996-2007 to identify relevant evidence. Searches were also conducted of relevant pharmacy and addiction journals. Information was sought from key contacts in pharmacy and alcohol research. Studies were included if they were conducted in a community pharmacy setting. KEY FINDINGS: The review comprised three feasibility studies which included 14 pharmacies and 500 customers. Non-significant reductions in alcohol consumption were reported with two studies following brief interventions by pharmacists. Between 30% and 53% of pharmacy customers were identified as having hazardous or harmful <e>drinking</e> behaviour. Customer opinion of the pharmacy-based alcohol services was not reported. CONCLUSIONS: There has been little empirical evaluation of the effectiveness of community pharmacy-based services for alcohol misuse. The evidence presented in this review suggests that community pharmacy-based screening is feasible. Organisations and individuals involved with tackling excessive alcohol consumption should consider the inclusion of community pharmacies and pharmacists as part of their strategies to address this problem. Large-scale studies are needed to evaluate the short- and long-term effects and cost-effectiveness of community pharmacy-based interventions to reduce excessive alcohol consumption, as well as to explore the acceptability of the service to
drinking	19722439	Drinking function	Children's <e>drinking</e> water: parental preferences and implications for fluoride exposure.PURPOSE: The purposes of this study were to: describe children's drinking water sources; determine if any demographic factors are associated with water choice; describe parents' reasons for selecting bottled water; and determine parents' ability to provide enough information about their drinking water for providers to assess children's fluoride exposure. METHODS: Subjects were parents of children 6 months to 15-years-old. A questionnaire was verbally administered in English or Spanish. Chi-square analyses were used to evaluate associations among study variables. RESULTS: Of 194 parents, 134 (69%) gave their children bottled water either exclusively or with tap water. Bottled water use was not significantly associated with the primary source of tap water, parent's education level, or household income. Reasons for giving children bottled water included: fear of contaminants in tap water; taste and/or smell of tap water; and convenience of bottled water. For parents using bottled water, over 65% did not know the brand's fluoride content. CONCLUSIONS: Barriers to an accurate fluoride assessment include frequent bottled water use and parental uncertainty about its fluoride content. By initiating communication with parents and educating them about fluoride sources, health care and dental providers may be able to better evaluate the adequacy of children's fluoride exposure and decide whether fluoride supplementation is necessary.
drinking	20484944	Drinking function	Feasibility and impact of placing water coolers on sales of sugar-sweetened beverages in Dutch secondary school canteens.AIMS: The aim of this pilot study was to investigate the feasibility and effectiveness of placing water coolers on sugar-sweetened beverage sales at secondary schools (age 12-18 years) in the city of Zwolle, the Netherlands. METHODS: Six schools, hosting 5,866 pupils, were divided in three intervention and three control schools. In the intervention schools, water coolers were placed in the canteen. Hidden observations were performed in one school to study the intervention's feasibility, and school personnel was interviewed. Beverage sales were monitored before and during the intervention. After the intervention period, 366 class 1 and 2 pupils completed a questionnaire about their <e>drinking</e> habits (response rate 81%). RESULTS: Placement of water coolers appeared to be a feasible intervention at secondary schools. However, it did not affect sales of sugar-sweetened beverages at schools. Although mean intake of sugar-sweetened beverages at school was high, more than 500 ml/day for boys, and more than 250 ml/day for girls, only a minority of these quantities was purchased at school. CONCLUSION: We conclude that placing water coolers as a single-issue intervention in secondary school canteens should not be prioritized in the combat against obesity.
drinking	20151396	Drinking function	Capacitively coupled contactless conductivity detection with dual top-bottom cell configuration for microchip electrophoresis.An optimized capacitively coupled contactless conductivity detector for microchip electophoresis is presented. The detector consists of a pair of top-bottom excitation electrodes and a pair of pickup electrodes disposed onto a very thin plastic microfluidic chip. The detection cell formed by the electrodes is completely encased and shielded in a metal housing. These approaches allow for the enhancement of signal coupling and extraction from the detection cell that result in an improved signal-to-noise-ratio and detection sensitivity. The improved detector performance is illustrated by the electrophoretic separation of six cations (NH(4) (+), K(+), Ca(2+), Na(+), Mg(2+), Li(+)) with a detection limit of approximately 0.3 microM and the analysis of the anions (Br(-), Cl(-), NO(2) (-), NO(3) (-), SO(4) (2-), F(-)) with a detection limit of about 0.15 microM. These LODs are significantly improved compared with previous reports using the conventional top-top electrode geometry. The developed system was applied to the analysis of ions in bottled <e>drinking</e> water samples.
drinking	20224883	Alcohol consumption	Alcohol <e>drinking</e>, cigarette smoking, and the development of squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus: molecular mechanisms of carcinogenesis.Esophageal cancer is the eighth most common incident cancer in the world and ranks sixth among all cancers in mortality. Esophageal cancers are classified into two histological types; esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC), and adenocarcinoma, and the incidences of these types show a striking variety of geographic distribution, possibly reflecting differences in exposure to specific environmental factors. Both alcohol consumption and cigarette smoking are major risk factors for the development of ESCC. Acetaldehyde is the most toxic ethanol metabolite in alcohol-associated carcinogenesis, while ethanol itself stimulates carcinogenesis by inhibiting DNA methylation and by interacting with retinoid metabolism. Cigarette smoke contains more than 60 carcinogens and there are strong links between some of these carcinogens and various smoking-induced cancers; these mechanisms are well established. Synergistic effects of cigarette smoking and alcohol consumption are also observed in carcinogenesis of the upper aerodigestive tract. Of note, intensive molecular biological studies have revealed the molecular mechanisms involved in the development of ESCC, including genetic and epigenetic alterations. However, a wide range of molecular changes is associated with ESCC, possibly because the esophagus is exposed to many kinds of carcinogens including alcohol and cigarette smoke, and it remains unclear which alterations are the most critical for esophageal carcinogenesis. This brief review summarizes the general mechanisms of alcohol- and smoking-induced carcinogenesis and then discusses the mechanisms of the development of ESCC, with special attention to alcohol consumption and cigarette smoking.
drinking	20382380	Drinking function	Sub-chronic effects of nitrate in <e>drinking</e> water on red-legged partridge (Alectoris rufa): oxidative stress and T-cell mediated immune function.In order to evaluate the effects of nitrates on birds, we have exposed captive red-legged partridges to nitrates concentrations of 0 (control), 100 (dwell water in farming areas) or 500 mg/l (fertirrigation level). The cellular immune response, plasma biochemistry, methemoglobin concentration (metHb), and oxidative stress biomarkers in blood and tissues were studied after two weeks of exposure. Several blood parameters such as aspartate aminotransferase, creatinine phosphokinase and lactate dehydrogenase activities and magnesium level decreased with nitrate exposure, whereas alkaline phosphatase activity and creatinine level increased. The oxidant effect of nitrates was evidenced by the increase in blood metHb, accompanied by the lipid peroxidation of red blood cells, the increased levels of oxidized glutathione (GSH) in liver, and the generation of oxidative DNA damage in plasma lymphocytes. GSH in erythrocytes was negatively correlated with blood metHb. The cellular immune function was slightly lower at partridges exposed to nitrates. These results suggest that adverse effects of nitrates on birds occur at concentrations potentially present in the field.
drinking	19846891	Drinking function	Contribution of different triggers to the gastric accommodation reflex in humans.Accommodation of the stomach consists of a vagally mediated relaxation of the proximal stomach, providing the meal with a reservoir. Our aim was to study whether, similar to other vagally mediated processes, the accommodation reflex is also determined by cephalic, oropharyngeal, gastric, and intestinal phases. Eleven healthy subjects underwent in randomized order five gastric barostat studies and two satiety <e>drinking</e> tests. In all studies, isobaric tone measurements (at minimal distending pressure + 2 mmHg) were performed 20 min before and 20 min after a nutrient stimulus. The stimuli included only visual and olfactory exposure to a meal (cephalic stimulation), taking liquid nutrient in the mouth without swallowing (sham feeding), ingestion of a 200-ml 300-kcal nutrient meal with blocked outflow to the pylorus (gastric retention), and meal infusion through a nasointestinal tube (duodenal instillation), or normal ingestion (control). During satiety testing, subjects ingested liquid nutrient at a fixed rate of 15 ml/min until maximum satiety, with an inflated or deflated intrapyloric balloon assembly. Progressively bigger gastric relaxatory responses were seen with cephalic stimulation (18 +/- 19 ml), sham feeding (54 +/- 21 ml), gastric retention (95 +/- 47), duodenal instillation (144 +/- 33), and control (232 +/- 33 ml). The amount of nutrient ingested at maximum satiety was significantly lower with an inflated intrapyloric balloon (1,223 +/- 103 vs. 1,392 +/- 124 ml, P &lt; 0.05). The accommodation reflex in humans lacks a cephalic phase, but it can be activated from the oropharynx, the stomach, and the duodenum. Blocking passage to the duodenum significantly decreases the amplitude of the accommodation reflex and induces early satiety.
drinking	20210616	Drinking function	Fluid consumption and sweating in National Football League and collegiate football players with different access to fluids during practice.CONTEXT: Considerable controversy regarding fluid replacement during exercise currently exists. OBJECTIVE: To compare fluid turnover between National Football League (NFL) players who have constant fluid access and collegiate football players who replace fluids during water breaks in practices. DESIGN: Observational study. SETTING: Respective preseason training camps of 1 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division II (DII) football team and 1 NFL football team. Both morning and afternoon practices for DII players were 2.25 hours in length, and NFL players practiced for 2.25 hours in the morning and 1 hour in the afternoon. Environmental conditions did not differ. PATIENTS OR OTHER PARTICIPANTS: Eight NFL players (4 linemen, 4 backs) and 8 physically matched DII players (4 linemen, 4 backs) participated. Intervention(s): All players drank fluids only from their predetermined individual containers. The NFL players could consume both water and sports drinks, and the DII players could only consume water. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): We measured fluid consumption, sweat rate, total sweat loss, and percentage of sweat loss replaced. Sweat rate was calculated as change in mass adjusted for fluids consumed and urine produced. RESULTS: Mean sweat rate was not different between NFL (2.1 +/- 0.25 L/h) and DII (1.8 +/- 0.15 L/h) players (F(1,12) = 2, P = .18) but was different between linemen (2.3 +/- 0.2 L/h) and backs (1.6 +/- 0.2 L/h) (t(14) = 3.14, P = .007). We found no differences between NFL and DII players in terms of percentage of weight loss (t(7) = -0.03, P = .98) or rate of fluid consumption (t(7) = -0.76, P = .47). Daily sweat loss was greater in DII (8.0 +/- 2.0 L) than in NFL (6.4 +/- 2.1 L) players (t(7) = -3, P = .02), and fluid consumed was also greater in DII (5.0 +/- 1.5 L) than in NFL (4.0 +/- 1.1 L) players (t(7) = -2.8, P = .026). We found a correlation between sweat loss and fluids consumed (r = 0.79, P &lt; .001). CONCLUSIONS: During preseason practices, the DII players <e>drinking</e> water at water breaks replaced the same volume of fluid (66% of weight lost) as NFL players with constant access to both water and sports drinks.
drinking	20102592	Drinking function	Tap water use amongst pregnant women in a multi-ethnic cohort.BACKGROUND : Studies of disinfection by-products in <e>drinking</e> water and measures of adverse fetal growth have often been limited by exposure assessment lacking data on individual water use, and therefore failing to reflect individual variation in DBP exposure. METHODS : Pregnant women recruited to the Born in Bradford cohort study completed a questionnaire which covers water exposure. Information was collected on water consumption, showering, bathing and swimming. Water exposure data from a subset of 39 women of the cohort are described here. RESULTS : Mean total tap water intake was 1.8 l/day, and women on average spent 146 minutes per week showering and bathing. Most tap water intake occurred at home (100% for unemployed, 71.8% for employed). Differences between age groups were observed for total tap water intake overall (p = 0.02) and at home (p = 0.01), and for bottled water intake (p = 0.05). There were differences between ethnic groups for tap water intake at home (p = 0.02) and total tap water intake at work (p = 0.02). Total tap water intake at work differed by income category (p = 0.001). Duration per shower was inversely correlated with age (Spearman's correlation -0.39, p = 0.02), and differed according to employment status (p = 0.04), ethnicity (p = 0.02) and income (p = 0.02). CONCLUSION : This study provides estimates of water exposure in pregnant women in a multi-ethnic population in the north of England and suggests differences related to age, employment, income and ethnicity. The findings are valuable to inform exposure assessment in studies assessing the relationship between DBPs and adverse birth outcomes.
drinking	20437850	Alcohol consumption	Alcohol, tobacco and genetic susceptibility in relation to cancers of the upper aerodigestive tract in northern Italy.AIMS AND BACKGROUND: Each year in Italy there are approximately 14,000 new cases and 7,000 deaths from cancer of the upper aerodigestive tract, which includes malignant tumors originating from the oral cavity, pharynx, larynx and esophagus. Established etiological factors include tobacco consumption and heavy alcohol <e>drinking</e>. The study of single nucleotide polymorphisms in upper aerodigestive tract cancer etiology may help to identify high-risk subgroups and to better understand the pathways leading to the development of these cancers. METHODS: Italian results on about 500 cases and 500 controls from a large case-control study (ARCAGE) conducted in 10 European countries are presented with the major objectives of updating results on the effects of alcohol and tobacco consumptions in northern Italy, investigating the role of genetic variation with regard to the metabolism of alcohol and carcinogens from tobacco smoke, and evaluating possible interactions of these single nucleotide polymorphisms with these carcinogens. RESULTS: The present study confirmed the importance of tobacco smoking and alcohol drinking as the main risk factors for upper aerodigestive tract cancers, indicating that about 68% of cancers among populations in northern Italy can be attributed to the combination of these risk factors. Significant associations between metabolizing phase I genes (CYP1A1 and CYP2A6), phase II genes (GSTA2) and upper aerodigestive tract cancers were found. A polymorphism of ADH1C has been associated with an increased risk of upper aerodigestive tract cancers, suggesting that the less rapid alcohol metabolizers are more susceptible to upper aerodigestive tract cancer risk. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that the ADH1C allele modifies the carcinogenic dose response for alcohol in the upper aerodigestive tract, giving rise to a gene-environment interaction. The role of genes as possible modifiers of life-style risks seems the most reliable.
drinking	19442833	Drinking function	Exposure to methamidophos at adulthood elicits depressive-like behavior in mice.Epidemiologic studies have suggested that organophosphate exposure is associated with an increased risk of depression and suicide. Considering that the neurobiological basis of this association is not well understood, in the present study we evaluated the depressive-like behavior of Swiss mice subchronically exposed to the organophosphate methamidophos at adulthood. From postnatal days 60 to 89 (PN60-PN89), one of two concentrations of methamidophos [higher dose (HiD): 5.25 microg/ml; lower dose (LoD): 1.31 microg/ml] or vehicle was administered in the <e>drinking</e> water. Immobile behavior, an animal model of depressive behavior, was assessed in the forced swimming and tail suspension tests either during (PN88) or after (PN99) the exposure period. On the subsequent day (PN89 or PN100), the Rota-rod and endurance swimming tests were used to evaluate motor performance. Brain acetylcholinesterase activity was quantified. During exposure, the LoD group presented increased immobility in the tail suspension test when compared to controls. The HiD group presented increased immobility in the forced swimming test when compared to LoD and control groups, an effect that emerged after cessation of exposure. There were no motor performance alterations. During exposure, acetylcholinesterase activity was inhibited in the HiD (43%) and LoD (15%) groups. After exposure, enzyme activity was reduced (25%) only in the HiD group. There were no signs of systemic toxicity. There were no correlations between acetylcholinesterase activity and behavioral measures. Our results indicate that methamidophos at doses below the threshold for systemic toxicity induces depressive-like behavior in adult mice.
drinking	20155599	Alcohol consumption	Mental health service utilization and <e>drinking</e> outcomes in a national population sample: are there racial/ethnic differences?Racial and ethnic disparities in alcohol use and alcohol-related problems have been well-documented. Less information is available about possible disparities in outcomes related to mental health services utilization. The differential effect of mental health services use by race on drinking outcomes was examined. Wave 2 of a national population sample of employed adults who reported having at least one alcoholic drink in the past year (N = 1,058) encompassed measures of the prevalence of mental health services use in response to stress, and alcohol-related outcomes. Non-white participants who reported using any mental health services, four or more mental health visits in the past year, and eight or more mental health visits in the past year reported lower rates of problematic drinking behaviors, including frequency of drinking to intoxication, heavy episodic drinking, and modified Brief MAST scores, than whites who reported similar use of mental health services.
