Ice	17934996	Methamphetamine	Asian-Pacific Islander adolescent methamphetamine use: does <e>ice</e> increase aggression and sexual risks?Using a probability sample from a 2001 Youth Risk Behavior Survey of Asian-Pacific Islander youths in Guam, this brief study examined the outcomes for methamphetamine use on aggression and risky sexual activities. The results of the study indicated that both male and female adolescents who used methamphetamine were significantly more likely to participate in aggressive behaviors and sexual risks (i.e., numerous sex partners). The inclusion of grade point averages in a logistic regression equation revealed that White adolescents were more likely than other ethnicities to indicate that they had used methamphetamine and the inclusion of student grade point averages reduced male gender to nonsignificance. We also discuss the limitations of the study.
Ice	20423076	Ice	Benzene photolysis on <e>ice</e>: implications for the fate of organic contaminants in the winter.The members of the important class of organic pollutants known as BTEX (benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylenes) do not undergo direct photolysis in natural waters, because their absorption spectra do not overlap that of the solar radiation which reaches the Earth's surface. Recent work has shown that aromatic compounds undergo significant red-shifts in their absorption spectra when they are present at air-ice interfaces, suggesting that BTEX components could undergo direct photolysis at ice surfaces. Using glancing-angle laser-induced fluorescence (LIF) as a probe, we measured benzene photodegradation at lambda &gt; 295 nm having a rate constant of (3 +/- 1 x 10(-4) s(-1)) under our experimental conditions. We predict that the photolysis rate at environmental ice surfaces will be similar, based on the photon flux dependence we measured. This study presents the first report of direct benzene photolysis under environmentally relevant conditions. The results suggest that direct photolysis could be an important removal pathway for organic pollutants such as BTEX in snow-covered regions, for example, in polar or urban areas contaminated by oil spills or leaks.
Ice	20446692	Ice	Release of legacy pollutants from melting glaciers: model evidence and conceptual understanding.Recently, increasing concentrations of persistent organic pollutants (POPs) have been observed in the sediment of glacier-fed Lake Oberaar, Switzerland. Melting glaciers have been suggested as a secondary source of POPs released to Alpine lakes. Here we further investigate whether climate warming may accelerate the release of POPs previously deposited to Alpine glaciers ( glacier hypothesis ). To test this hypothesis, a dynamic multimedia mass balance model is developed for the catchment area of Lake Oberaar and is applied to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs), and dichlorodiphenyl trichloroethane (DDT). This lake model is combined with two other models. The first is a dynamic multimedia mass balance model parametrized for the Swiss lowlands that is used to calculate (on the basis of historical emission data) the atmospheric concentrations that are an advective input into the model of the lake catchment. The second is a flow model of Oberaar Glacier that determines the residence time of persistent chemicals in the glacier after their deposition to the glacier surface. According to results from these three models in combination, the release of POPs by the glacier is currently increasing and accounts for the observed increase in concentrations in the lake sediment. The models indicate that approximately half of the amount of PCBs, PCDD/Fs, and DDT initially incorporated into the glacier <e>ice</e> is still stored in the glacier. Under the assumption that the climate is warming, accelerated release of POPs is to be expected for the future; in a model run where no climate warming is assumed, the period of time required for release of the same amount of chemicals is longer by several decades than in the scenario with a changing climate.
Ice	16292821	Caspase-1	Enantio- and diastereoselective total synthesis of EI-1941-1, -2, and -3, inhibitors of interleukin-1beta converting enzyme, and biological properties of their derivatives.[reaction: see text] The first asymmetric total synthesis of EI-1941-1, -2, and -3, inhibitors of the interleukin-1beta converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>), has been accomplished, starting from a chiral epoxy iodoquinone 11, a key intermediate in our total synthesis of epoxyquinols A and B. Despite a failure to synthesize the inhibitors by our postulated biosynthetic route, we were able to diastereoselectively synthesize them via an intramolecular carboxypalladation with the key steps being a 6-endo cyclization mode followed by beta-hydride elimination. The investigation of the biological properties of EI-1941-1, -2, and -3 and their derivatives disclosed them to be potent and effective ICE inhibitors with less cytotoxicity than EI-1941-1 and -2 in a cultured cell system.
Ice	12810350	Caspase-1	Role of Fas/Fas ligand-mediated apoptosis in murine contact hypersensitivity.Apoptosis plays an important role in immune responses, but little is known about its involvement in contact hypersensitivity (CH). In this study, we have investigated the role of Fas/Fas ligand (FasL)-mediated apoptosis in the pathogenesis of CH. Mice were sensitized by one topical application of 100 microl of 3% oxazolone to shaved skin of the abdomen. Six days later, CH was provoked by challenging both sides of sensitized mouse right ear with 15 microl of 1% oxazolone. Using a DNA ladder assay, we found that apoptosis was induced in the skin of oxazolone-sensitized mice 24-96 h after allergen challenge. Annexin V-fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-propidium iodide (PI) apoptosis flow cytometric assay showed that early apoptotic CD4(+) T cells (annexin V-FITC(+)PI(-)), but not late apoptotic CD4(+) T cells (annexin V-FITC(+)PI(+)), increased in the inflamed skin of mice with CH. Moreover, the expressions of mRNAs for T helper (Th2) cytokine (interleukin (IL)-4), Th1 cytokine (interferon (IFN)-gamma) and proapoptotic molecules (Bax, Fas, FasL and IL-1beta-converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>)/caspase-1) were significantly elevated in the oxazolone-sensitized mouse skin 6-72 h after allergen challenge. Dramatic increase in IL-10 mRNA was only observed in the sensitized mouse skin 6 and 12 h after allergen challenge. Furthermore, CH was significantly inhibited with decreased apoptosis and early apoptotic CD4(+) T cells in inflamed skin in Fas mutant lpr/lpr mice compared to wild-type mice, whereas there were no significant differences in IL-4, IFN-gamma, IL-10, Bax and ICE mRNAs in the inflamed skin of CH between lpr/lpr and wild-type mice. Our results thus suggest that Fas/FasL pathway partially contributes to apoptosis in murine CH and that Fas/FasL-mediated apoptosis plays a partial role in the development of CH. The contribution of Fas/FasL-mediated apoptosis to CH appears independent of Th1 and Th2 cytokines.
Ice	19947752	Ice	Apparatus for single <e>ice</e> crystal growth from the melt.A crystal growth apparatus was designed and built to study the effect of growth modifiers, antifreeze proteins and antifreeze glycoproteins (AFGPs), on ice crystal growth kinetics and morphology. We used a capillary growth technique to obtain a single ice crystal with well-defined crystallographic orientation grown in AFGP solution. The basal plane was readily observed by rotation of the capillary. The main growth chamber is approximately a 0.8 ml cylindrical volume. A triple window arrangement was used to minimize temperature gradients and allow for up to 10 mm working distance objective lens. Temperature could be established to within +/-10 mK in as little as 3.5 min and controlled to within +/-2 mK after 15 min for at least 10 h. The small volume growth chamber and fast equilibration times were necessary for parabolic flight microgravity experiments. The apparatus was designed for use with inverted and side mount configurations.
Ice	2592191	Methamphetamine	Crystal methamphetamine-induced acute pulmonary edema: a case report. Crystal methamphetamine  is a crystalline form of amphetamine, the abuse of which is growing rapidly in popularity in Japan, Hawaii and the West Coast. Drug experts and law enforcement officials say that the use of crystal meth is spreading east from California. It may produce permanent addiction and can produce violent schizophrenic behavior. Introduced along the Leeward Coast of Hawaii about 3 years ago, it is now being used throughout Oahu and is starting to rival cocaine as the illicit drug of choice in Hawaii. It is also the major drug problem in Japan, where the powder form is called  shabu.  The smoking of crystal ( <e>ice</e> ) in a glass pipe is more common in Hawaii, whereas other routes of administration, such as snorting or intravenous use, are more common on the West Coast. We present the case of a young woman who was admitted to Kaiser Moanalua Medical Center with near fatal acute pulmonary edema consequent to the use of crystal meth.
Ice	20128930	Ice	Old divergences in a boreal bird supports long-term survival through the <e>Ice</e> Ages.BACKGROUND: Unlike northern Europe and most of northern North America, the Eastern Palearctic and the northwesternmost tip of North America are believed to have been almost unglaciated during the Quarternary glacial periods. This could have facilitated long-term survival of many organisms in that area. To evaluate this, we studied the phylogeography in east Asia and Alaska of a boreal migratory passerine bird, the Arctic Warbler Phylloscopus borealis, and compared our results with published data on especially North American species. RESULTS: In a sample of 113 individuals from 18 populations we identified 42 haplotypes of the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene, which separated into three clades: A--Alaska and mainland Eurasia (except Kamchatka); B--Kamchatka, Sakhalin and Hokkaido; and C--Honshu, Shikoku and Kyushu (i.e. Japan except Hokkaido). The oldest split among these clades, between A/B and C, is estimated to have taken place sometime between the mid Pliocene and early Pleistocene, and the second divergence, between clades A and B, in the early to mid Pleistocene. Within all of the three main clades, there are signs of population expansion. CONCLUSIONS: The Arctic Warbler separated into three main clades in close succession around the Pliocene/Pleistocene border, with the two northern clades diverging last. All three clades probably experienced population bottlenecks during the Pleistocene as a result of range shifts and contractions, but nevertheless survived and maintained their integrities. Several other clades of Northeastern Palearctic birds are noted to have diversified during the Pliocene. In contrast, avian species or phylogroups presently occupying formerly glaciated North American ground are generally younger. The differences between these regions could be due to slower speciation rates in the Eastern Palearctic due to less fragmentation of forest habitats during glacial periods, or to longer survival of Eastern Palearctic clades as a result of less severe conditions in that region compared to northern North America. Several other Palearctic organisms show concordant biogeographical patterns to that of the Arctic Warbler, indicating common causes of their diversifications.
Ice	8610803	Methamphetamine	Recurrent corneal ulcerations associated with smokeable methamphetamine abuse.PURPOSE: We studied a case of chronic, recurrent, bilateral, corneal ulcerations associated with smokeable methamphetamine abuse, commonly known as  <e>ice</e>,  in an otherwise healthy 31-year-old woman. METHODS: Every few months the patient had recurrent corneal ulcerations. Each time, she was hospitalized and treated successfully with topical antibiotics. RESULTS: Even though she had undergone numerous formal attempts at drug rehabilitation, she continued to have relapses, and ulceration recurred only during periods of smokeable methamphetamine abuse. CONCLUSION: Illicit use of smokeable methamphetamine may result in corneal ulceration.
Ice	20047158	Caspase-1	<e>ICE</e>/caspase 1 inhibitors and IL-1beta receptor antagonists as potential therapeutics in epilepsy.Epilepsy is a disabling neurological disorder that is characterized by recurring, unprovoked seizures. Drug-resistant epilepsy affects approximately 30% of individuals with epilepsy; thus, one of the main challenges for epilepsy therapy is the development of alternative anticonvulsant approaches. The discovery that inflammatory mediators contribute significantly to the onset and recurrence of seizures in experimental models, as well as the presence of inflammatory molecules in human epileptogenic tissue, highlight the possibility of targeting specific inflammation-related pathways to control seizures that are otherwise resistant to the available anti-epileptic drugs. This review summarizes the proof-of-principle evidence, obtained in experimental disease models, demonstrating the anticonvulsant activity of specific anti-inflammatory drugs, such as inhibitors of IL-1-converting enzyme/caspase 1 and antagonists of IL-1beta receptors. Drugs that block IL-1beta actions have entered clinical trials as potential therapeutics for autoimmune and inflammatory pathologies, and may also have therapeutic potential in epilepsies associated with proinflammatory processes in the brain.
Ice	19933523	Ice	Character, distribution and biological implications of <e>ice</e> crystallization in cryopreserved rabbit ovarian tissue revealed by cryo-scanning electron microscopy.BACKGROUND: Ovarian tissue banking is an emerging strategy for fertility preservation which has led to several viable pregnancies after transplantation. However, the standard method of slow cooling was never rigorously optimized for human tissue nor has the extent and location of ice crystals in tissue been investigated. To address this, we used cryo-scanning electron microscopy (cryo-SEM) to study ice formation in cryopreserved ovarian tissue. METHODS: Rabbit ovarian tissue slices were equilibrated in 1,2-propanediol-sucrose solution and cooled at either 0.3 degrees C/min or 3.0 degrees C/min after nucleating ice at -7 degrees C, or snap-frozen by plunging in liquid nitrogen. Frozen tissues were fractured, etched and coated with gold or prepared by freeze substitution and sectioning for cryo-SEM. RESULTS: The size, location and orientation of extracellular ice crystals were revealed as pits and channels that had grown radially between freeze-concentrated cellular materials. They represented 60% of the total volume in slowly cooled samples that were nucleated at -7 degrees C and the crystals, often &gt;30 microm in length, displaced cells without piercing them. Samples cooled more rapidly were much less dehydrated, accounting for the presence of small ice crystals inside cells and possibly in organelles. CONCLUSIONS: Cryo-SEM revealed the internal structure of ovarian tissue in the frozen state was dominated by elongated ice crystals between islands of freeze-concentrated cellular matrix. Despite the grossly distorted anatomy, the greater degree of dehydration and absence of intracellular ice confirmed the superiority of a very slow rate of cooling for optimal cell viability. These ultrastructural methods will be useful for validating and improving new protocols for tissue cryopreservation.
Ice	16908171	Caspase-1	Synthesis and evaluation of novel 8,5-fused bicyclic peptidomimetic compounds as interleukin-1beta converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>) inhibitors.An 8,5-fused bicyclic peptidomimetic ring system generated by a stereoselective ring metathesis reaction was elaborated into potent inhibitors of interleukin-1beta converting enzyme (ICE, caspase-1). Multiple compounds were found that exhibited ICE IC50 values &lt; 10 nM and were selective over caspase-3 and caspase-8. These active analogs generally possessed good activity (IC50 values &lt; 100 nM) in a whole cell assay measuring IL-1beta production. Pharmacokinetic analysis of the ethyl acetal prodrug form of a selected active lead revealed a compound with a reasonable plasma half-life (1.1 h) and good oral bioavailability (30%).
Ice	19787712	Ice	The effect of intravesical oxybutynin on the <e>ice</e> water test and on electrical perception thresholds in patients with neurogenic detrusor overactivity.AIMS: The C-fiber-mediated bladder-cooling reflex and the determination of the current perception thresholds (CPTs) permit to investigate afferent LUT pathways. They have both been proposed to detect and differentiate neurologic bladder dysfunction. This study evaluates, prospectively, the effect of oxybutynin, an antimuscarinic with direct antispasmodic effect on smooth muscle, on repeated ice water test (IWT) and CPTs in patients with a known incomplete neurogenic bladder. METHODS: Patients with a known incomplete lesion of the bladder innervation, detrusor overactivity during cystometric bladder filling and a continuous positive response to repeated IWT were included. After the initial tests, 30 mg intravesical oxybutynin (1 mg/ml) was instilled and left in the bladder for 15 min. Afterwards CPTs and IWT were re-assessed. RESULTS: After the drug application, the bladder-cooling reflex could not be initiated, even after three instillations, in 16/17 patients. The bladder CPT increased from 29.7 +/- 11.3 to 39.1 +/- 15.7 mA after oxybutynin (P = 0.001). No difference was found in CPT of the left forearm (P = 0.208). CONCLUSIONS: Intravesical oxybutynin blocks the bladder-cooling reflex and increases but does not block CPT sensation in the bladder in most patients with incomplete neurogenic lesion and detrusor overactivity. These results help explain the clinical effect of intravesical oxybutynin in neurogenic patients. They also indicate that a pharmacological local influence on C-fiber-related activity can give different clinical effects.
Ice	19841917	Ice	Bioprospecting for microbial products that affect <e>ice</e> crystal formation and growth.At low temperatures, some organisms produce proteins that affect ice nucleation, ice crystal structure, and/or the process of recrystallization. Based on their ice-interacting properties, these proteins provide an advantage to species that commonly experience the phase change from water to ice or rarely experience temperatures above the melting point. Substances that bind, inhibit or enhance, and control the size, shape, and growth of ice crystals could offer new possibilities for a number of agricultural, biomedical, and industrial applications. Since their discovery more than 40 years ago, ice nucleating and structuring proteins have been used in cryopreservation, frozen food preparation, transgenic crops, and even weather modification. Ice-interacting proteins have demonstrated commercial value in industrial applications; however, the full biotechnological potential of these products has yet to be fully realized. The Earth's cold biosphere contains an almost endless diversity of microorganisms to bioprospect for microbial compounds with novel ice-interacting properties. Microorganisms are the most appropriate biochemical factories to cost effectively produce ice nucleating and structuring proteins on large commercial scales.
Ice	20131267	Ice	Clinical Images: Visualization of overcompensated rebound temperature against <e>ice</e>-water cold challenge.
Ice	12384922	Caspase-1	The in situ up-regulation of chondrocyte interleukin-1-converting enzyme and interleukin-18 levels in experimental osteoarthritis is mediated by nitric oxide.OBJECTIVE: To investigate in situ the relationship between 2 key mediators implicated in osteoarthritic (OA) cartilage: nitric oxide (NO) and interleukin-1-converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>). Interleukin-18 (IL-18) was also studied and served as reference for the effects of ICE. METHODS: An OA model was created in dogs by sectioning (stab wound) the anterior cruciate ligament of the right stifle joint. Three experimental groups were studied: unoperated untreated dogs, operated untreated dogs (OA), and OA dogs treated with oral N-iminoethyl-L-lysine (L-NIL), a specific inhibitor of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) (10 mg/kg twice a day starting immediately after surgery). At 12 weeks after surgery, cartilage from the femoral condyles and tibial plateaus were processed for immunohistochemistry for ICE, IL-18, and protease inhibitor 9 (PI-9), a natural inhibitor of ICE, followed by morphometric analysis. Cartilage specimens from the femoral condyles of untreated OA dogs were dissected and incubated with specific inhibitors of different signaling pathways likely to be involved in the OA process: SB 202190 (10 microM; a p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase [MAPK] inhibitor), PD 98059 (100 microM; a MAPK kinase 1/2 [MEK-1/2] inhibitor), NS-398 (10 ng/ml; a specific cyclooxygenase 2 [COX-2] inhibitor), and L-NIL (50 microM). RESULTS: Both ICE and IL-18 were present in situ in the canine cartilage, with a significant increase in the level of these 2 proteins in OA cartilage. In contrast, the level of PI-9 was lower in OA than in normal cartilage (difference not statistically significant). Compared with untreated OA cartilage, oral treatment with L-NIL significantly decreased ICE and IL-18 levels in cartilage from the femoral condyles and tibial plateaus, to values similar to those in normal dogs. L-NIL also increased the PI-9 level in normal dogs compared with OA dogs, reaching statistical significance for femoral condyle cartilage. Interestingly, in vitro experiments demonstrated significant inhibition of ICE levels by p38, MEK-1/2, and COX-2 inhibitors, but not by the iNOS inhibitor. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated that in situ in OA cartilage, the stimulation of chondrocytes by NO is at least partly responsible for the up-regulation of ICE and IL-18 synthesis while decreasing the level of the ICE inhibitor PI-9. The ICE level is controlled by the activation of at least 2 MAPK pathways, p38 and MEK-1/2. Interestingly, it appears that ICE synthesis is not regulated by the endogenous production of NO. These data highlight the role played by iNOS in regulating the synthesis of major catabolic factors involved in OA cartilage degradation.
Ice	19627693	Ice	The effect of quantity of <e>ice</e> and size of contact area on ice pack/skin interface temperature.OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of quantity of ice and contact area on ice pack/skin interface temperature during a 20-minute cooling period. DESIGN: Repeated measures. SETTING: Laboratory setting in an educational institution. PARTICIPANTS: Twenty healthy males aged between 18 and 22 years. INTERVENTIONS: An ice pack was applied to the right thigh with compression using an elastic bandage. The effects of three packs measuring 18 cm x 23 cm containing 0.3, 0.6 and 0.8 kg of ice, and one pack measuring 20 cm x 25 m containing 0.6 kg of ice were compared. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The reduction in temperature at the ice pack/skin interface during 20-minute ice applications was monitored at 1-minute intervals. RESULTS: The application of 0.8-kg and 0.6-kg ice packs led to a significantly greater decrease in the interface temperature compared with the 0.3-kg ice pack [0.8 kg vs. 0.3 kg: -2.35 degrees C, 95% confidence interval (CI) of the difference -3.36 to -1.34 degrees C; 0.6 kg vs. 0.3 kg: -2.95 degrees C, 95% CI -4.07 to -1.83 degrees C]. No significant difference in temperature was found between the 0.6-kg and 0.8-kg ice packs (0.8 kg vs. 0.6 kg: 0.6 degrees C, 95% CI -0.12 to 1.32 degrees C, P&gt;0.05). The size of the contact area did not alter the degree of cooling significantly (difference between smaller and larger pack: 0.05 degrees C, 95% CI -0.93 to 1.03 degrees C, P&gt;0.05). The lowest temperature during ice application was reached after 8-9 minutes of cooling. CONCLUSION: Application of an ice pack containing at least 0.6 kg of ice leads to a greater magnitude of cooling compared with application of a 0.3-kg ice pack, regardless of the size of the contact area. Thus, clinicians should consider using ice packs weighing at least 0.6 kg for cold treatment.
Ice	14642889	Caspase-1	Production and mechanism of secretion of interleukin-1beta from the marine fish gilthead seabream.Mammalian interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) is a secretory cytokine lacking a signal peptide, which does not follow the classical endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi pathway of secretion. Its post-translational processing by IL-1beta-converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>) and subsequent release from activated macrophages requires ATP acting on P2X7 receptors. Little information is available on the production and release of fish IL-1beta, but the IL-1beta gene sequences reported to date lack a conserved ICE recognition site. We show for the first time that lipopolysaccharide (LPS)/macrophage-activating factor/bacterial DNA (VaDNA)-primed immune cells of the marine fish gilthead seabream (Sparus aurata) accumulate intracellular IL-1beta as a approximately 30 kDa polypeptide (proIL-1beta). The combination of LPS and VaDNA was found to be synergistic, suggesting that each ligand is recognized by a different pattern recognition receptor. More importantly, addition of extracellular ATP does not promote IL-1beta secretion by immune cells and fails to induce phosphatidylserine flip. In contrast, gilthead seabream SAF-1 fibroblasts shed microvesicles containing a 22 kDa IL-1beta form within 30 min of activation with ATP. Notably, the post-translational processing of IL-1beta by SAF-1 cells is abrogated by a specific ICE inhibitor.
Ice	12796490	Caspase-1	Maturation and release of interleukin-1beta by lipopolysaccharide-primed mouse Schwann cells require the stimulation of P2X7 receptors.The P2X7 receptor, mainly expressed by immune cells, is a ionotropic receptor activated by high concentration of extracellular ATP. It is involved in several processes relevant to immunomodulation and inflammation. Among these processes, the production of extracellular interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), a pro-inflammatory cytokine, plays a major role in the activation of the cytokine network. We have investigated the role of P2X7 receptor and of an associated calcium-activated potassium conductance (BK channels) in IL-1beta maturation and releasing processes by Schwann cells. Lipopolysaccharide-primed Schwann cells synthesized large amounts of pro-IL-1beta but did not release detectable amounts of pro or mature IL-1beta. ATP on its own had no effect on the synthesis of pro-IL-1beta, but a co-treatment with lipopolysaccharide and ATP led to the maturation and the release of IL-1beta by Schwann cells. Both mechanisms were blocked by oxidized ATP. IL-1beta-converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>), the caspase responsible for the maturation of pro-IL-1beta in IL-1beta, was activated by P2X7 receptor stimulation. The specific inhibition of ICE by the caspase inhibitor Ac-Tyr-Val-Ala-Asp-aldehyde blocked the maturation of IL-1beta. In searching for a link between the P2X7 receptor and the activation of ICE, we found that enhancing potassium efflux from Schwann cells upregulated the production of IL-1beta, while strongly reducing potassium efflux led to opposite effects. Blocking BK channels actually modulated IL-1beta release. Taken together, these results show that P2X7 receptor stimulation and associated BK channels, through the activation of ICE, leads to the maturation and the release of IL-1beta by immune-challenged Schwann cells.
Ice	20154487	Ice	[Evaluation of pain reduction upon injecting goserelin acetate using an <e>ice</e> pack]LH-RH agonist is the key drug in hormonal therapy for premenopausal patients with breast cancer. It is important to reduce the pain related to injecting the LH-RH agonist, because patients must continue the medication for several years. We developed a way to reduce the pain by cooling the needle injecting site with a frozen ice pack. 18 premenopausal postoperated women filled out a questionnaire on the severity of pain upon injecting Goserelin acetate compared with the pain without this cooling method and pretreatment. We estimated the pain by a Numerical Rating Scale(NRS). The NRS scores of this cooling method revealed the pain to be significantly less than by control method(p&lt;0. 005). This cooling method could be useful for the reduction of pain upon injecting the LH-RH agonist.
Ice	19924923	Ice	An 800-year record of atmospheric As, Mo, Sn, and Sb in central Asia in high-altitude <e>ice</e> cores from Mt. Qomolangma (Everest), Himalayas.As, Mo, Sn, and Sb have been determined by inductively coupled plasma sector field mass spectrometry (ICP-SFMS) in 143 depth intervals of high-altitude ice cores from Mt. Everest, covering an 800-year time period from 1205 to 2002 AD. The results clearly demonstrate the long-term historical record of atmospheric transport and deposition of As, Mo, Sn, and Sb that has prevailed at high altitudes in the central Himalayas. Natural contributions, mainly from mineral dust, have dominated the atmospheric cycles of As, Mo, Sn, and to some extent Sb during the 700 years prior to the 20th century. Compared to those of the pre-1900 period, pronounced increases of both concentrations and crustal enrichment factors are observed since the 1970s, with the highest increase factor for Sn and the lowest for As. Such increases are attributed to anthropogenic emissions of these elements, largely from stationary fossil fuel combustion and nonferrous metals production, particularly in India. Our central Himalayan ice core record provides an explicit recognition of rising atmospheric As, Mo, Sn, and Sb pollution in response to rapid economic growth in central Asia.
Ice	18705842	Caspase-1	Lipopolysaccharide increased the expression levels of IL-18, <e>ICE</e> and IL-18 R in murine Leydig cells.PROBLEM: This study examined the effect of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on the capacity of Leydig cells to produce and express interleukin-18 (IL-18), IL-18 receptor (IL-18R) and the IL-1beta-converting enzyme (ICE) (IL-18 family), under in vitro conditions. METHOD OF STUDY: Primary Leydig cells (LCs) were isolated from murine testis by the Percoll technique, and cultured both in the presence and absence of LPS (0.1, 1, 5 microg/mL) for 3 and 24 hr. LCs were examined for their capacity to produce and express IL-18 family molecules by using immunohistochemical staining (IHC), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), Western blot and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis. RESULTS: Leydig cells were shown to constitutively express IL-18, as examined by IHC, ELISA, Western blot and real-time PCR analysis. Addition of LPS to LC cultures was shown to significantly increase the basal levels of IL-18, in a dose- and time course-dependent manner, as examined by ELISA, Western blot and real-time PCR analysis. In addition, LPS increased LC cultures to express ICE and IL-18 R, as examined by real-time PCR analysis. CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that LPS increased the capacity of murine LCs to produce the IL-18 family molecules. IL-18, in the testis, might be involved in the regulation of physiological and infection/inflammatory processes, and thus, could be a component of the autocrine/paracrine factor net that controls steroidogenesis and male fertility; further studies are needed to confirm this possibility.
Ice	17393315	Caspase-1	The <e>ICE</e> inhibitor pralnacasan prevents DSS-induced colitis in C57BL/6 mice and suppresses IP-10 mRNA but not TNF-alpha mRNA expression.Previously we demonstrated an ameliorating effect of the interleukin-1beta converting enzyme (ICE) inhibitor pralnacasan on dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis. This study investigates the effects of pralnacasan on cytokine expression in DSS-induced colitis. Colitis was induced by oral administration of DSS. Mice were treated intraperitoneally with the ICE inhibitor pralnacasan (50 mg/kg body weight twice daily). Body weight as well as the presence of occult blood or diarrhea was monitored daily. Subgroups were sacrificed at days 4, 8, and 11 after the beginning of DSS application. Cytokine profiles in colonic tissue were analyzed on the protein level by ELISA and on the mRNA level by real time RT-PCR. Administration of DSS led to an increase in IL-18, IL-12, TNF-alpha, and IFN-gamma protein as well as IP-10 and TNF-alpha mRNA. The increase in IL-18 and IFN-gamma was reduced by ICE inhibition. Pralnacasan prevented DSS-induced colitis in C57BL/6 mice. In C57BL/6 mice, the DSS-induced increase in IP-10 mRNA, but not TNF-alpha mRNA, was completely prevented by ICE inhibition. In conclusion, prevention of colitis in C57BL/6 mice was associated with a suppresion of IP-10 mRNA, but not TNF-alpha mRNA expression, indicating that IL-18-mediated cytokine production is a key element in the pathogenesis of DSS-induced colitis.
Ice	20007862	Ice	Formation of Iapetus' extreme albedo dichotomy by exogenically triggered thermal <e>ice</e> migration.The extreme albedo asymmetry of Saturn's moon Iapetus, which is about 10 times as bright on its trailing hemisphere as on its leading hemisphere, has been an enigma for three centuries. Deposition of exogenic dark material on the leading side has been proposed as a cause, but this alone cannot explain the global shape, sharpness, and complexity of the transition between Iapetus' bright and dark terrain. We demonstrate that all these characteristics, and the asymmetry's large amplitude, can be plausibly explained by runaway global thermal migration of water ice, triggered by the deposition of dark material on the leading hemisphere. This mechanism is unique to Iapetus among the saturnian satellites because its slow rotation produces unusually high daytime temperatures and water ice sublimation rates for a given albedo.
Ice	9542724	Methamphetamine	Free radicals and the pathobiology of brain dopamine systems.Oxygen is an essential element for normal life. However, reactive oxygen species (ROS) can also participate in deleterious reactions that can affect lipid, protein, and nucleic acid. Normal physiological function thus depends on a balance between these ROS and the scavenging systems that aerobic organisms have developed over millennia. Tilting of that balance towards a pro-oxidant state might result from both endogenous and exogenous causes. In the present paper, we elaborate on the thesis that the neurodegenerative effects of two drugs, namely methamphetamine (METH, <e>ICE</e>) and methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, Ecstasy) are due to ROS overproduction in monoaminergic systems in the brain. We also discuss the role of oxygen-based species in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced nigrostriatal dopaminergic degeneration and in Parkinson's disease. Studies are underway to identify specific cellular and molecular mechanisms that are regulated by oxygen species. These studies promise to further clarify the role of oxidative stress in neurodegeneration and in plastic changes that occur during the administration of addictive agents that affect the brain.
Ice	19120479	Caspase-1	Inflammasomes: guardians of cytosolic sanctity.The innate immune system is critical in recognizing bacterial and viral infections to evoke a proper immune response. Certain members of the intracellular nucleotide-binding and oligomerization domain (NOD)-like receptor (NLR) family detect microbial components in the cytosol and trigger the assembly of large caspase-1-activating complexes termed inflammasomes. Autoproteolytic maturation of caspase-1 zymogens within these inflammasomes leads to maturation and secretion of the pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) and IL-18. The NLR proteins <e>ICE</e> protease-activating factor (IPAF), NALP1b (NACHT domain-, leucine-rich repeat-, and PYD-containing protein 1b), and cryopyrin/NALP3 assemble caspase-1-activating inflammasomes in a stimulus-dependent manner. Bacterial flagellin is sensed by IPAF, whereas mouse NALP1b detects anthrax lethal toxin. Cryopyrin/NALP3 mediates caspase-1 activation in response to a wide variety of microbial components and in response to crystalline substances such as the endogenous danger signal uric acid. Genetic variations in Nalp1 and cryopyrin/Nalp3 are associated with autoinflammatory disorders and increased susceptibility to microbial infection. Further understanding of inflammasomes and their role in innate immunity should provide new insights into the mechanisms of host defense and the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases.
Ice	19729005	Ice	Measurement of the size of intracellular <e>ice</e> crystals in mouse oocytes using a melting point depression method and the influence of intracellular solute concentrations.Characterization of intracellular ice formed during the cooling procedures of cells significantly benefits the development and optimization design of cryopreservation or cryosurgery techniques. In this study, we investigated the influence of the concentration of extracellular non-permeable and permeable solutes on the melting points of the intracellular ice in mouse oocytes using cryomicroscopy. The results showed that the melting points of the intracellular ice are always lower than the extracellular ice. Based on this observation and the Gibbs-Thomson relation, we established a physical model to calculate the size of intracellular ice crystals and described its relationship with the concentrations of intracellular permeating solutes and macromolecules. This model predicts that the increased concentration of macromolecules in cells, by increasing the extracellular non-permeating solute concentration, can significantly lower the required concentration of permeable solutes for intracellular vitrification. The prediction was tested through the cryomicroscopic observation of the co-existence of intracellular vitrification and extracellular crystallization during cooling at 100 degrees C/min when the extracellular solutions contain 5 molal (m) ethylene glycol and 0.3 to 0.6m NaCl.
Ice	20373120	Ice	Molecular cloning and expression analysis of a cytosolic Hsp70 gene from Antarctic <e>ice</e> algae Chlamydomonas sp. ICE-L.A cDNA encoding heat shock protein 70 of Antarctic ice algae Chlamydomonas sp. ICE-L (designated as CiHsp70) was identified by RT-PCR and rapid amplification of cDNA ends approaches. The full-length cDNA of CiHsp70 was 2,232 bp, consisting of a 5'-terminal untranslated region (UTR) of 76 bp, a 3'-terminal UTR of 203 bp with a poly (A) tail, and an open reading frame of 1,953 bp. The CiHsp70 cDNA encoded a polypeptide of 651 amino acids with an ATPase domain of 388 amino acids, the substrate peptide binding domain of 246 amino acids and a C-terminus domain of 17 amino acids. The inducible CiHsp70 cDNA was highly homologous to other plant cytosolic Hsp70 genes and clustered together with green algae and higher plant rather than brown algae, diatom and Cryptophyta. Antarctic ice algae were treated with different stress conditions and messenger RNA (mRNA) expression levels of CiHsp70 were quantified by quantitative RT-PCR. The results showed that both cold and heat shock treatments could stimulate CiHsp70 mRNA expression. Meanwhile, CiHsp70 mRNA expression level increased 2.9-fold in response to UV-B radiation for 6 h, while the expression levels of CiHsp70 were remarkably increased after removing the UV-B radiation and immediately providing additional 6 h visible light. Furthermore, treating with 62 or 93 per thousand NaCl for 2 h, CiHsp70 mRNA expression level increased 3.0- and 2.1-fold, respectively. Together, our observations revealed that CiHsp70 as a molecular chaperone might play an important role in Antarctic ice algae Chlamydomonas sp. ICE-L acclimatizing to polar environment.
Ice	19727513	Ice	Homogeneous <e>ice</e> freezing temperatures and ice nucleation rates of aqueous ammonium sulfate and aqueous levoglucosan particles for relevant atmospheric conditions.Homogeneous ice nucleation from micrometre-sized aqueous (NH4)2SO4 and aqueous levoglucosan particles is studied employing the optical microscope technique. A new experimental method is introduced that allows us to control the initial water activity of the aqueous droplets. Homogeneous ice freezing temperatures and ice melting temperatures of these aqueous solution droplets, 10 to 80 microm in diameter, are determined. Homogeneous ice nucleation from aqueous (NH4)2SO4 particles 5-39 wt% in concentration and aqueous levoglucosan particles with initial water activities of 0.85-0.99 yield upper limits of the homogeneous ice nucleation rate coefficients of up to 1x10(10) cm(-3) s(-1). The experimentally derived homogeneous ice freezing temperatures and upper limits of the homogeneous ice nucleation rate coefficients are compared with corresponding predictions of the water-activity-based ice nucleation theory [T. Koop, B. P. Luo, A. Tsias and T. Peter, Nature, 2000, 406, 611]. It is found that the water-activity-based ice nucleation theory can capture the experimentally derived ice freezing temperatures and homogeneous ice nucleation rate coefficients of the aqueous (NH4)2SO4 and aqueous levoglucosan particles. However, the level of agreement between experimentally derived and predicted values, in particular for homogeneous ice nucleation rate coefficients, crucially depends on the extrapolation method to obtain water activities at corresponding freezing temperatures. It is suggested that the combination of experimentally derived ice freezing temperatures and homogeneous ice nucleation rate coefficients can serve as a better validation of the water-activity-based ice nucleation theory than when compared to the observation of homogeneous ice freezing temperatures alone. The atmospheric implications with regard to the application of the water-activity-based ice nucleation theory and derivation of maximum ice particle production rates are briefly discussed.
Ice	19680302	Ice	Preventing winter falls: a randomised controlled trial of a novel intervention.AIM: To investigate the hypothesis that wearing socks over shoes improves traction on icy footpaths. METHODS: Randomised controlled trial involving 30 pedestrians (median age 21 years, range 18-70) travelling in a downhill direction on icy public footpaths at two sites in Dunedin, New Zealand. Intervention: different coloured socks applied over normal footwear or usual practice (unadulterated footwear). Primary outcome: difference in mean self-reported slipperiness on a 5-point scale. Secondary outcomes: falls, observer-rated slipperiness, observer-rated confidence, time to descend study slope. RESULTS: Two-thirds of participants (65%) had previously fallen on <e>ice</e>. Wearing socks over normal footwear was associated with a statistically significant improvement in traction; the difference in mean self-reported slipperiness scores between the control (n=15) and intervention (n=14) groups was 1.3 (95%CI: 0.4-2.3). Agreement between self-rated and observer-rated slipperiness was high (r=0.70). A higher proportion of the intervention group (71% vs 53%) appeared confident. One member of the control group fell. There was no evidence of risk compensation in the intervention group (difference in mean descent times 1.9 seconds, 95%CI: -6.1-10.0). The only adverse events were short periods of indignity for some members of the intervention group. CONCLUSION: Wearing socks over shoes appears to be an effective and inexpensive method to reduce the likelihood of slipping on icy footpaths.
Ice	14610233	Caspase-1	The interleukin-1 beta-converting enzyme inhibitor pralnacasan reduces dextran sulfate sodium-induced murine colitis and T helper 1 T-cell activation.The proinflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-1beta and IL-18 are supposed to play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of human inflammatory bowel disease. To exert biological activity, the precursors of both IL-1beta and IL-18 need to be cleaved by the interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>). IL-18 induces the synthesis of IFN-gamma in T cells and NK cells. In the present study, we investigated the effect of the specific ICE inhibitor pralnacasan in dextran sulfate sodium-induced murine colitis. Colitis was induced in BALB/c mice by 3.5% dextran sulfate sodium dissolved in drinking water for 10 days. Pralnacasan was administered either intraperitoneally or orally every day. To assess in vivo efficacy, a clinical disease activity score was evaluated daily. Colon length, expression of IL-18 in colonic tissue, expression of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) in paraaortal lymphocytes, and systemic production of IFN-gamma in splenocytes were analyzed post mortem. Intraperitoneally administered pralnacasan significantly reduced the clinical score compared with the dextran sulfate sodium control group from day 6 to day 10. Oral administration of pralnacasan also significantly reduced the clinical score at days 8 and 9. Administration of pralnacasan i.p. reduced the expression of intracolonic IL-18 significantly. Furthermore, pralnacasan reduced the number of IFN-gamma-positive lymphocytes in paraaortal lymph nodes. IFN-gamma synthesis in stimulated splenocytes was significantly suppressed in all pralnacasan-treated groups. No side effects of pralnacasan were observed. In conclusion, pralnacasan is effective in the prevention of dextran sulfate sodium-induced colitis. This effect is probably mediated by suppression of the proinflammatory cytokines IL-18, IL-1beta, and IFN-gamma.
Ice	16225757	Caspase-1	Effects of specific interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme inhibitor on ischemic acute renal failure in murine models.AIM: To study the effect of selective interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>, caspase-1) inhibitor on ischemic acute renal failure (ARF). METHODS: Mouse models of ischemic ARF were treated with the specific ICE inhibitor AC-YVAD-CMK. A renal function assay and renal morphological studies were employed to estimate the renal protective effect of AC-YVAD-CMK. The survival rate of mouse models was also analyzed by a time series test. Furthermore, renal ICE activity, mature interleukin-18 (IL-18) protein expression and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) mRNA expression were also detected by fluorescent enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), ELISA, and semi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, respectively. RESULTS: The levels of blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine (Scr) increased remarkably in the model controls compared with the sham-operated groups (P&lt;0.01). Typical renal tubular necrosis was found in the model controls. Renal ICE activity, mature IL-18 protein expression, and IFN-gamma mRNA expression were also increased significantly in the model controls compared with the sham-operated groups. The levels of BUN and Scr in the AC-YVAD-CMK therapy group were decreased significantly compared with the untreated model controls (P&lt;0.01). Renal tubulointerstitial lesion was also attenuated significantly (P&lt;0.05). AC-YVAD-CMK therapy alleviated the clinical features of ARF, and increased the survival rate (P&lt;0.01). Furthermore, AC-YVAD-CMK therapy also decreased ICE activity, mature IL-18 protein expression, and IFN-gamma mRNA expression in renal tissue (P&lt;0.05). CONCLUSION: The selective ICE inhibitor AC-YVAD-CMK can effectively protect the kidney from acute ischemic lesions. This protective effect is associated with decreased renal ICE activity and suppressed IL-18 maturation and IFN-gamma mRNA transcription.
Ice	14698852	Caspase-1	Neuronal expression of caspase-1 immunoreactivity in the rat central nervous system.Caspase-1/interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta)-converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>) cleaves IL-1beta and IL-18 precursor proteins to the active forms of these proinflammatory cytokines. Since both cytokines are constitutively expressed in the brain, we investigated whether this is also the case for caspase-1. Using an antibody raised against the p10-subunit of the active enzyme, constitutive expression of caspase-1 immunoreactivity was found in nerve cells in the arcuate nucleus and in nerve fibres throughout the brain. Co-localisation with alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone was demonstrated. The distribution pattern of caspase-1 immunoreactive structures is consistent with a role to produce mature IL-1beta in regions where IL-1beta mediates fever and sleep.
Ice	1996001	Methamphetamine	Cardiomyopathy associated with the smoking of crystal methamphetamine.The smoking of crystal methamphetamine, or  <e>ice</e>,  is a growing drug abuse problem in the United States. The toxic effects of methamphetamine smoking have not been well described. We describe two patients with cardiovascular toxic effects associated with the smoking of crystal methamphetamine. In our first patient, the use of smokeable methamphetamine was associated with the subsequent development of pulmonary edema and a dilated cardiomyopathy. In our second patient, the smoking of crystal methamphetamine likely produced diffuse vasospasm that resulted in acute myocardial infarction, cardiogenic shock, and death. The recognition of potentially lethal cardiac complications associated with the smoking of crystal methamphetamine is of extreme significance and should be emphasized to potential abusers of this drug.
Ice	20109077	Ice	Legionella in an <e>ice</e> machine may be a sentinel for drinking water contamination.
Ice	19779195	Ice	Distribution of mid-latitude ground <e>ice</e> on Mars from new impact craters.New impact craters at five sites in the martian mid-latitudes excavated material from depths of decimeters that has a brightness and color indicative of water ice. Near-infrared spectra of the largest example confirm this composition, and repeated imaging showed fading over several months, as expected for sublimating ice. Thermal models of one site show that millimeters of sublimation occurred during this fading period, indicating clean ice rather than ice in soil pores. Our derived ice-table depths are consistent with models using higher long-term average atmospheric water vapor content than present values. Craters at most of these sites may have excavated completely through this clean ice, probing the ice table to previously unsampled depths of meters and revealing substantial heterogeneity in the vertical distribution of the ice itself.
Ice	17473225	Caspase-1	Cardioprotective and anti-inflammatory effects of interleukin converting enzyme inhibition in experimental diabetic cardiomyopathy.OBJECTIVE: We investigated the effect of pharmacological inhibition of the interleukin converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>) on cardiac inflammation, apoptosis, fibrosis, and left ventricular function in an animal model of diabetes. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Diabetes was induced in 24 Sprague-Dawley rats by injection of streptozotozin (STZ) (70 mg/kg). Diabetic animals were treated with the interleukin converting enzyme (ICE) inhibitor (ICEI) (n = 12) or with a placebo (n = 12). Nondiabetic rats served as controls (n = 12). Left ventricular function was documented 6 weeks after induction of diabetes. Cardiac tissue was analyzed for the expression of cytokines, intracellular adhesion molecule-1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1, leukocyte and macrophage integrins, and collagen. Phosphorylation of Akt was analyzed by Western blot and apoptosis by Blc-2 and Bax measurements. RESULTS: Left ventricular function was significantly impaired in diabetic animals. This was accompanied by a significant increase of cytokines, cell adhesion molecules, leukocytes and macrophages, and collagen content. In addition, the phosphorylation state of Akt was reduced. These changes were significantly attenuated in the diabetic group treated with ICEI. CONCLUSIONS: Cardiac dysfunction is associated with cardiac inflammation in experimental diabetic cardiomyopathy. Both of these--cardiac dysfunction and inflammation--are attenuated after treatment with ICEI. These data suggest that anticytokine-based therapies might be beneficial in diabetic cardiomyopathy.
Ice	12628757	Caspase-1	Caspase-1 inhibitors abolish deleterious enhancement of COX-2 expression induced by HIV-1 gp120 in human neuroblastoma cells.The human CHP100 neuroblastoma cell line has been shown to provide an useful in vitro model to elucidate the mechanisms underlying HIV-1 gp120 neurotoxicity. Here we report western blotting evidence demonstrating that exposure to a cytotoxic concentration of the viral coat protein up-regulates expression of the inducible isoform of cyclooxygenase (COX-2) in neuroblastoma cells and this seems to be due to the previously observed increase in secreted IL-1beta. In fact, here we show that acetyl-Tyr-Val-Ala-Asp-chloromethylketone (Ac-YVAD-CMK) and t-butoxycarbonyl-L-aspartic acid benzyl ester-chloromethylketone (Boc-Asp-(OBzl)-CMK), two inhibitors of Interleukin-1 Converting Enzyme (<e>ICE</e>; also referred to as caspase-1), abolish COX-2 expression enhanced by gp120 and consequent cell death. In addition, NS-398, a selective inhibitor of COX-2 activity, affords neuroprotection strengthening the role of COX-2 in the mechanisms of death. In conclusion, the present data support the notion that IL-1beta is the signal through which gp120 elevates COX-2 expression and the latter is strongly implicated in the mechanisms underlying cytotoxicity.
Ice	12597888	Caspase-1	A bicistronic expression system for bacterial production of authentic human interleukin-18.Interleukin-18 (IL-18) is activated and released from immune effector cells to stimulate acquired and innate immune responses involving T and natural killer (NK) cells. The release of IL-18 from mammalian cells is linked to its proteolytic activation by caspases including interleukin 1 converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>). The absence of a signal peptide sequence and the requirement for coupled activation and cellular release have presented challenges for the large-scale recombinant production of IL-18. In this study, we have explored methods for the direct production of authentic human IL-18 toward the development of a large-scale production system. Expression of mature IL-18 directly in Escherichia coli with a methionine initiating codon leads to the production of MetIL-18 that is dramatically less potent in bioassays than IL-18 produced as a pro-peptide and activated in vitro. To produce an authentic IL-18, we have devised a bicistronic expression system for the coupled transcription and translation of ProIL-18 with caspase-1 (ICE) or caspase-4 (ICE-rel II, TX, ICH-2). Mature IL-18 with an authentic N-terminus was produced and has a biological activity and potency comparable to that of in vitro processed mature IL-18. Optimization of this system for the maximal production yields can be accomplished by modulating the temperature, to affect the rate of caspase activation and to favor the accumulation of ProIL-18, prior to its proteolytic processing by activated caspase. The effect of temperature is particularly profound for the caspase-4 co-expression process, enabling optimized production levels of over 150 mg/L in shake flasks at 25 degrees C. An alternative bicistronic expression design utilizing a precise ubiquitin IL-18 fusion, processed by co-expressed ubiquitinase, was also successfully used to generate fully active IL-18, thereby demonstrating that the pro-sequence of IL-18 is not required for recombinant IL-18 production.
Ice	19965393	Ice	Planetary science. Yes, there's <e>ice</e> on the moon--but how much, and what use is it?
Ice	19846778	Ice	Ultrafast photochemistry of methyl hydroperoxide on <e>ice</e> particles.Simulations show that photodissociation of methyl hydroperoxide, CH(3)OOH, on water clusters produces a surprisingly wide range of products on a subpicosecond time scale, pointing to the possibility of complex photodegradation pathways for organic peroxides on aerosols and water droplets. Dynamics are computed at several excitation energies at 50 K using a semiempirical PM3 potential surface. CH(3)OOH is found to prefer the exterior of the cluster, with the CH(3)O group sticking out and the OH group immersed within the cluster. At atmospherically relevant photodissociation wavelengths the OH and CH(3)O photofragments remain at the surface of the cluster or embedded within it. However, none of the 25 completed trajectories carried out at the atmospherically relevant photodissociation energies led to recombination of OH and CH(3)O to form CH(3)OOH. Within the limited statistics of the available trajectories the predicted yield for the recombination is zero. Instead, various reactions involving the initial fragments and water promptly form a wide range of stable molecular products such as CH(2)O, H(2)O, H(2), CO, CH(3)OH, and H(2)O(2).
Ice	19655969	Ice	A zero-gravity instrument to study low velocity collisions of fragile particles at low temperatures.We discuss the design, operation, and performance of a vacuum setup constructed for use in zero (or reduced) gravity conditions to initiate collisions of fragile millimeter-sized particles at low velocity and temperature. Such particles are typically found in many astronomical settings and in regions of planet formation. The instrument has participated in four parabolic flight campaigns to date, operating for a total of 2.4 h in reduced-gravity conditions and successfully recording over 300 separate collisions of loosely packed dust aggregates and <e>ice</e> samples. The imparted particle velocities achieved range from 0.03 to 0.28 m s(-1) and a high-speed, high-resolution camera captures the events at 107 frames/s from two viewing angles separated by either 48.8 degrees or 60.0 degrees. The particles can be stored inside the experiment vacuum chamber at temperatures of 80-300 K for several uninterrupted hours using a built-in thermal accumulation system. The copper structure allows cooling down to cryogenic temperatures before commencement of the experiments. Throughout the parabolic flight campaigns, add-ons and modifications have been made, illustrating the instrument flexibility in the study of small particle collisions.
Ice	10357249	Methamphetamine	Neuroadaptations in the dopaminergic system after active self-administration but not after passive administration of methamphetamine.Methamphetamine is a strong and long-lasting stimulant that can be easily synthesized and is effective when taken either orally, intravenously, or smoked as '<e>ice</e>'. Due to it's escalating abuse, a clear need exists for laboratory procedures to evaluate motivational components of methamphetamine abuse and their underlying neurobiological mechanisms. In the present experiment, we utilized a 'yoked' procedure in which rats were run simultaneously in groups of three, with two rats serving as yoked controls which received an injection of either 0.1 mg/kg methamphetamine or saline which was not contingent on responding each time a response-contingent injection of 0.1 mg/kg methamphetamine was self-administered by the third paired rat. Rats that had actively self-administered methamphetamine for 5 weeks and were then withdrawn from methamphetamine for 24 h showed marked decreases in somatodendritic dopamine D2 autoreceptors levels in the ventral tegmental area (34%) and medial (31%) and dorsal (21%) part of the substantia nigra zona compacta with a corresponding down-regulation of dopamine D1 receptors in the shell of the nucleus accumbens (15%), as measured by in vitro quantitative autoradiography. Since the decreases in levels of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors which occurred in rats self-administering methamphetamine did not occur in littermates that received either yoked injections of methamphetamine or saline, these changes likely reflect motivational states that were present when methamphetamine injection depended on active drug self-administration behavior.
Ice	19492339	Ice	<e>Ice</e> nucleation temperature influences recovery of activity of a model protein after freeze drying.The objective of this study was to determine whether a relationship exists between ice nucleation temperature and recovery of activity of a model protein, lactate dehydrogenase, after freeze drying. Aqueous buffer systems containing 50 microg/mL of protein were frozen in vials with externally mounted thermocouples on the shelf of a freeze dryer, then freeze dried. Various methods were used to establish a wide range of ice nucleation temperatures. An inverse relationship was found between the extent of supercooling during freezing and recovery of activity in the reconstituted solution. The data are consistent with a mechanism of inactivation resulting from adsorption of protein at the ice/freeze-concentrate interface during the freezing process.
Ice	17572009	Caspase-1	The synthetic tellurium compound, AS101, is a novel inhibitor of IL-1beta converting enzyme.The organotellurium compound, trichloro(dioxoethylene-O,O') tellurate (AS101) has been shown previously to exert diverse biologic activities both in vitro and in vivo. This compound was recently found to react with thiols and to catalyze their oxidation. This property of AS101 raises the possibility that it may serve as a cysteine protease inhibitor. In the present study, using a substrate-specific enzymatic assay, we show that treatment of caspase-1 (interleukin-1beta [IL-1beta] converting enzyme [<e>ICE</e>]) with AS101 inhibits its enzymatic activity in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, the results show that AS101 treatment causes a significant reduction in the active form of IL-18 and IL-1beta in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and in human HaCat keratinocytes. We further demonstrate that the inhibitory effect of AS101 does not involve nitric oxide (NO) or interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), two possible regulators of IL-18 production, and does not occur at the mRNA level, suggesting a posttranscriptional mechanism of action. More importantly, AS101 downregulates IL-18 and IL-1beta serum levels in a mouse model of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced sepsis, resulting in increased survival. Recent studies emphasize the pathophysiologic role of IL-18 and IL-1beta in a variety of inflammatory diseases. Thus, their blockage by the nontoxic compound, AS101, currently used in clinical studies, may provide clinical advantage in the treatment of these diseases.
Ice	14584052	Caspase-1	Gingival and dermal fibroblasts produce interleukin-1 beta converting enzyme and interleukin-1 beta but not interleukin-18 even after stimulation with lipopolysaccharide.Epithelial cells play a critical role in periodontal disease through the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) and interleukin-18 (IL-18). However, the role played by fibroblasts is still unclear. The rationale of this study was to throw light on the role of gingival fibroblasts in periodontal disease. We thus investigated the expression of IL-1 beta, IL-18, and <e>ICE</e> mRNA and the secretion of the corresponding proteins by human normal gingival fibroblasts before and after stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from Porphyromonas gingivalis and Escherichia coli. IL-1 beta, IL-18, and ICE mRNA expression was evaluated by RT-PCR. Proteins were analyzed by Western blot and ELISA. We demonstrated that gingival fibroblasts expressed ICE mRNA. Basal expression of ICE was modulated following cell stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (5 mug/ml). However, gingival fibroblasts expressed low levels of IL-1 beta mRNA. The expression was potentiated by LPS. The expression of IL-1 beta mRNA was followed by the secretion of IL-1 beta but not IL-18 protein. Our study suggests that fibroblasts may be involved in the defense against infections via an IL-1 beta-mediated but not an IL-18-mediated mechanism.
Ice	20008812	Ice	Microbiological and chemical analyses of <e>ice</e> collected from a commercial poultry processing establishment.A study was conducted to evaluate the microbiological and chemical characteristics of ice collected from a commercial poultry further processing facility. During each of 3 visits, the following ice samples were collected: 1) freshly prepared, unused ice; 2) product-contact ice from ice-packed poultry parts; 3) product-contact ice from ice-packed poultry that had been visibly inspected and condemned as not for reuse; and 4) product-contact ice from ice-packed poultry that had passed visible inspection and had been prepared for reuse by washing (rinse with potable water and drain). The overall pattern for lowest to highest numbers of total aerobic microorganisms, coliforms, Escherichia coli, and Enterobacteriaceae was as follows: unused ice &lt; washed ice &lt; product-contact ice &lt; condemned ice. Mean levels of total aerobic microorganisms, coliforms, and Enterobacteriaceae in the unused ice were 0.3, 0.4, and 0.4 log10 cfu/mL, respectively. No E. coli was detected in the unused or washed ice, and levels were 0.5 and 1.5 log10 cfu/mL in the product-contact and condemned ice samples, respectively. Mean levels of bacteria enumerated in condemned ice were 0.8, 1.0, and 0.6 log10 cfu/mL higher than the levels of bacteria found in product-contact ice for coliforms, E. coli, and Enterobacteriaceae, respectively. Washing and draining the product-contact ice decreased counts by 0.9, 0.7, 0.5, and 1.7 log10 cfu/mL for total aerobic microorganisms, coliforms, E. coli, and Enterobacteriaceae, respectively. All of the ice samples had similar pH values (pH 6.1 to 6.4). Unused and washed ice were not significantly different for total solids, total suspended solids, total Kjeldahl nitrogen, and chemical oxygen demand. Condemned ice contained the highest concentration of total solids, total suspended solids, total Kjeldahl nitrogen, and chemical oxygen demand, with levels more than 3 times that found in product contact ice. Data from the present study demonstrate that visible contamination in ice corresponds with increased microbiological and chemical contamination. Product-contact ice may be washed and the washing procedure can reduce the bacterial, solids, nitrogen, and organic loads.
Ice	17461983	Caspase-1	Elevated levels of interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme and caspase-cleaved cytokeratin-18 in acute myocardial infarction.BACKGROUND: Systemic inflammation and apoptosis-specific immune activation play a major role in acute coronary syndromes (ACS) including acute myocardial infarction (AMI). The role of systemic and coronary obtained inflammatory plasma protein interleukin-1beta precursor (IL-1betap), IL-1beta-converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>) and the apoptosis-specific caspase-cleaved cytokeratin-18 (ccCK-18) are not known in ACS. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Plasma samples were obtained from stable angina (SA, n = 34), unstable angina (UA, n = 37) and patients with AMI (n = 39). Coronary blood was acquired by means of thrombectomy devices (X-sizer) in AMI patients. IL-1betap, ICE and ccCK-18 were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Group comparisons were evaluated by parametric Tukey test. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was performed to determine predictive values of IL-1betap, ICE and ccCK-18 as compared to creatine kinase (CK) and troponin T (TnT) in order to relate these markers with the occurrence of myocardial damage. RESULTS: IL-1betap, ICE and ccCK-18 were identified to be significantly altered in the peripheral blood of patients suffering from AMI as compared to SA and UA. ROC curves were plotted and revealed that ccCK-18 is a novel sensitive marker for the detection of myocardial damage as compared to TnT or CK. (AUC ccCK-18 0.925, TnT AUC 0.62 and CK AUC 0.858.) Moreover, ICE and ccCK-18 were significantly increased at the site of coronary occlusion as compared to peripheral blood samples in AMI patients (both P &lt; 0.001). CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that ACS is related to increased concentration of systemic soluble ICE and ccCK-18. Moreover, soluble ccCK-18 was identified to be a superior marker as compared to TnT or CK, for detection of myocardial damage.
Ice	19879587	Ice	Ultra-trace determination of Persistent Organic Pollutants in Arctic <e>ice</e> using stir bar sorptive extraction and gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry.This study presents the optimization and application of an analytical method based on the use of stir bar sorptive extraction (SBSE) gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (GC-MS) for the ultra-trace analysis of POPs (Persistent Organic Pollutants) in Arctic ice. In a first step, the mass-spectrometry conditions were optimized to quantify 48 compounds (polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, brominated diphenyl ethers, chlorinated biphenyls, and organochlorinated pesticides) at the low pg/L level. In a second step, the performance of this analytical method was evaluated to determine POPs in Arctic cores collected during an oceanographic campaign. Using a calibration range from 1 to 1800 pg/L and by adjusting acquisition parameters, limits of detection at the 0.1-99 and 102-891 pg/L for organohalogenated compounds and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, respectively, were obtained by extracting 200 mL of unfiltered ice water. alpha-hexachlorocyclohexane, DDTs, chlorinated biphenyl congeners 28, 101 and 118 and brominated diphenyl ethers congeners 47 and 99 were detected in ice cores at levels between 0.5 to 258 pg/L. We emphasise the advantages and disadvantages of in situ SBSE in comparison with traditional extraction techniques used to analyze POPs in ice.
Ice	19618605	Caspase-1	Interferon regulatory factor-1 exerts inhibitory effect on neointimal formation after vascular injury.OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of interferon regulatory factors (IRFs) on neointimal formation after vascular injury in the mouse, and its possible mechanism. METHODS: Vascular injury was induced by polyethylene cuff placement around the left femoral artery of IRF-1-deficient mice and C57BL/6J mice. The mRNA expressions of IRF-1, IRF-2, angiotensin II type 2 (AT2) receptor, interleukin-1 beta converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) were detected by RT-PCR and immunohistochemical staining. RESULTS: Neointimal formation after vascular injury was significantly greater in IRF-1-deficient mice than that in C57BL/6J mice (P&lt;0.05). In contrast, TUNEL-positive nuclei to total nuclei in the neointima and media in vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) in the injured artery significantly attenuated in IRF-1-deficient mice compared to C57BL/6J mice (P&lt;0.05). The expressions of AT2 receptor as well as pro-apoptotic genes such as ICE and iNOS in C57BL/6J mice were up-regulated in response to vascular injury, but this upregulation was attenuated in IRF-1-deficient mice. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that IRF-1 induces VSMC apoptosis and inhibits neointimal formation after vascular injury at least partly due to the upregulation of AT2 receptor, ICE and iNOS expressions. These results indicate that IRF-1 exerts an inhibitory effect on neointimal formation through the induction of apoptosis in VSMCs.
Ice	19640138	Ice	Characterizing <e>ice</e> crystal growth behavior under electric field using phase field method.In this article, the microscale ice crystal growth behavior under electrostatic field is investigated via a phase field method, which also incorporates the effects of anisotropy and thermal noise. The multiple ice nuclei's competitive growth as disclosed in existing experiments is thus successfully predicted. The present approach suggests a highly efficient theoretical tool for probing into the freeze injury mechanisms of biological material due to ice formation during cryosurgery or cryopreservation process when external electric field was involved.
Ice	16756799	Caspase-1	[Regulation of cytokine production in inflammatory bowel disease]Interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) is a pivotal mediator in the inflammatory immune response that is characteristic of a number of chronic disorders. The etiology and pathophysiology of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) have for many years been an enigma. The recent identification of the inflammasome, a multiprotein complex responsible for interleukin-1beta converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>, caspase-1) activation, has generated new possibilities for the elucidation of the etiology and pathophysiology of IBD and as a consequence also for the identification of new treatment targets.
Ice	11890646	Caspase-1	Novel targets for interleukin 18 binding protein.BACKGROUND: Interleukin 18 (IL18) is related to the IL1 family by structure, receptors, signalling molecules, and function. IL18 induces gene expression and synthesis of tumour necrosis factor (TNF), IL1, Fas ligand, several chemokines, and vascular adhesion molecules. Similar to IL1beta, IL18 is synthesised as a biologically inactive precursor molecule lacking a signal peptide. The IL18 precursor requires cleavage into an active, mature molecule by the intracellular cysteine protease, IL1beta converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>, or caspase-1). Inhibitors of ICE activity limit the biological activity of IL18 in animals and may be useful in reducing the activity of IL18 in human disease. However, a constitutively secreted IL18 binding protein (IL18BP) exists which functions as a natural inhibitor of IL18 activity. IL18BP binds IL18 with a high affinity (Kd of 400 pM) and, at equimolar ratios, inhibits 50-70% of IL18; at twofold molar excess, IL18BP neutralises nearly all IL18 activity. METHOD: IL18 was investigated for its role in human myocardial function. An ischaemia/reperfusion (I/R) model of suprafused human atrial myocardium was used to assess myocardial contractile force. RESULTS: The addition of IL18BP to the perfusate during and after I/R resulted in improved post-I/R contractile function from 35% of control to 76% with IL18BP. Also, IL18BP treatment preserved intracellular tissue creatine kinase levels (by 420%). Because active IL18 requires cleavage of its precursor form by ICE, inhibition of ICE attenuated the depression in contractile force after I/R (from 35% of control compared with 75.8% in treated atrial muscle, p&lt;0.01). CONCLUSION: Myocardial ischaemia is a target for IL18BP and use of IL18BP may thereby reduce ischaemia-induced myocardial dysfunction.
Ice	19834516	Caspase-1	Imaging and therapy of experimental schwannomas using HSV amplicon vector-encoding apoptotic protein under Schwann cell promoter.Schwannomas are benign tumors forming along peripheral nerves that can cause deafness, pain and paralysis. Current treatment involves surgical resection, which can damage associated nerves. To achieve tumor regression without damage to nerve fibers, we generated an HSV amplicon vector in which the apoptosis-inducing enzyme, caspase-1 (<e>ICE</e>), was placed under the Schwann cell-specific P0 promoter. Infection of schwannoma, neuroblastoma and fibroblastic cells in culture with ICE under the P0 promoter showed selective toxicity to schwannoma cells, while ICE under a constitutive promoter was toxic to all cell types. After direct intratumoral injection of the P0-ICE amplicon vector, we achieved marked regression of schwannoma tumors in an experimental xenograft mouse model. Injection of this amplicon vector into the sciatic nerve produced no apparent injury to the associated dorsal root ganglia neurons or myelinated nerve fibers. The P0-ICE amplicon vector provides a potential means of 'knifeless resection' of schwannoma tumors by injection of the vector into the tumor with low risk of damage to associated nerve fibers.
Ice	20092301	Ice	Anthracene photolysis in aqueous solution and <e>ice</e>: photon flux dependence and comparison of kinetics in bulk ice and at the air-ice interface.We report an investigation of the photolysis kinetics of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in aqueous solution, frozen in ice, and at air-ice interfaces. Measurements of PAH photolysis rates in aqueous solution and at air-ice interfaces as a function of lamp power show that the kinetics depend nonlinearly on photon flux. In both media, the rates do not increase when lamp powers are above 0.1 W, which corresponds to total photon fluxes lower than 10(13) photon cm(-2) s(-1) in the actinic region. This suggests that extrapolating laboratory-measured rates to expected atmospheric photon fluxes may not yield accurate lifetimes for some species. In the plateau region of the photon flux dependence, anthracene located within the ice matrix (or in liquid pockets or veins in the ice) undergoes photolysis at a similar rate to that in room temperature aqueous solution, but the rate of anthracene photolysis at air-ice interfaces is five times greater. This indicates that in order to accurately predict the lifetimes of aromatic pollutants in snow and ice, the quasi-liquid layer (QLL) must be treated separately from bulk ice.
Ice	12914790	Caspase-1	Aberrant T cell activation and heightened apoptotic turnover in end-stage renal failure patients: a comparative evaluation between non-dialysis, haemodialysis, and peritoneal dialysis.Patients in end-stage renal disease (ESRD) have a high incidence of bacterial and viral infections. Fifteen non-dialysed (ND), 15 haemodialysed (HD), 15 patients with peritoneal dialysis (PD), and 15 healthy controls were included. T cell proliferation was measured by [3H]thymidine uptake. Apoptosis and cell phenotype were determined by FACS. sTNF-R1, sCD95, interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme (sICE), and interleukin (IL)-10 were measured by ELISA. PHA and CD3-driven T cell proliferation were significantly decreased in ESRD patients. CD3(+), CD19(+) B cells, and percentage of CD4(+) T cells were significantly reduced. Percent memory T cells (CD45RO(+)) and cells undergoing apoptosis (CD95(+)/Annexin V+) were significantly increased in ESRF. Moreover, sCD95, sTNFRI, and <e>ICE</e> were significantly increased. Serum level of IL-10, a Th2 cytokine, was enhanced. These findings strongly suggest that in ESRD patients Th1 T cells are selectively susceptible to undergo apoptosis. This observation provides an additional pathophysiological concept in the genesis of Th2 dominance.
Ice	19728139	Ice	Small scale vertical gradients of Arctic <e>ice</e> algal  photophysiological properties.Photosynthetic parameters of phytoplankton and sea ice algae from landfast sea ice of the Chukchi Sea off Point Barrow, Alaska, were assessed in spring 2005 and winter through spring 2006 using Pulse Amplitude Modulated (PAM) fluorometry including estimates of maximum quantum efficiency (F(v)/F(m)), maximum relative electron transport rate (rETR(max)), photosynthetic efficiency (alpha), and the photoadaptive index (E(k)). The use of centrifuged brine samples allowed to document vertical gradients in ice algal acclimation with 5 cm vertical resolution for the first time. Bottom ice algae (0-5 cm from ice-water interface) expressed low F(v)/F(m) (0.331-0.426) and low alpha (0.098-0.130 (micromol photons m(-2)s(-1))(-1)) in December. F(v)/F(m) and alpha increased in March and May (0.468-0.588 and 0.141-0.438 (micromol photons m(-2)s(-1))(-1), respectively) indicating increased photosynthetic activity. In addition, increases in rETR(max) (3.3-16.4 a.u.) and E(k) (20-88 micromol photons m(-2) s(-1)) from December to May illustrates a higher potential for primary productivity as communities become better acclimated to under-ice light conditions. In conclusion,photosynthetic performance by ice algae (as assessed by PAM fluorometry) was tightly linked to sea ice salinity, temperature, and inorganic nutrient concentrations (mainly nitrogen).
Ice	19624212	Ice	The phase diagram of water at negative pressures: virtual <e>ices</e>.The phase diagram of water at negative pressures as obtained from computer simulations for two models of water, TIP4P/2005 and TIP5P is presented. Several solid structures with lower densities than ice Ih, so-called virtual ices, were considered as possible candidates to occupy the negative pressure region of the phase diagram of water. In particular the empty hydrate structures sI, sII, and sH and another, recently proposed, low-density ice structure. The relative stabilities of these structures at 0 K was determined using empirical water potentials and density functional theory calculations. By performing free energy calculations and Gibbs-Duhem integration the phase diagram of TIP4P/2005 was determined at negative pressures. The empty hydrates sII and sH appear to be the stable solid phases of water at negative pressures. The phase boundary between ice Ih and sII clathrate occurs at moderate negative pressures, while at large negative pressures sH becomes the most stable phase. This behavior is in reasonable agreement with what is observed in density functional theory calculations.
Ice	1886456	Methamphetamine	Clinical effects of methamphetamine vapor inhalation.Despite the increasing popularity of crystalline methamphetamine ( <e>ice</e> ) vapor inhalation, no investigations have reported drug plasma concentrations and effects. Under controlled laboratory conditions, six subjects were studied. Plasma concentrations of methamphetamine were determined, and subjective and cardiovascular effects were measured. Methamphetamine appeared in plasma rapidly, increased slowly over the next four hours and then progressively declined. The dose of methamphetamine administered produced modest ratings of subjective drug effects, and moderate changes in cardiovascular parameters. Both subjective and cardiovascular effects rapidly decreased despite the presence of sustained concentrations of methamphetamine in plasma.
Ice	20417403	Ice	Effect of reduced oxygen atmosphere and sodium acetate treatment on the microbial quality changes of seer fish (Scomberomorus commerson) steaks stored in <e>ice</e>.The effect of reduced oxygen atmosphere and sodium acetate treatment on the microbial quality of seer fish (Scomberomorus commerson) steaks was determined during chilled storage (1-2 degrees C). The O2 absorber reduced the oxygen content in the pack to less than 0.01% corresponding to 99.96% reduction within 24 h. The use of O2 absorber with sodium acetate dip treatment (2% w/v) extended the sensory shelf life up to 25 days compared to only 12 days for control air packs and 20 days for untreated samples with O2 absorber. A prominent lag phase was observed for many bacterium studied, particularly for the sodium acetate treated samples with O2 absorber. On the day of sensory rejection, both the total mesophilic and psychrotrophic counts reached 7.7-8.1 and 7.1-7.9 log cfu/g, respectively. The sodium acetate treatment and reduced O2 atmosphere affected the type of major spoilers. In air packed samples, H2S-producers predominated followed by Brochothrix thermosphacta, Pseudomonas spp., where as in the untreated samples with O2 absorber, H2S-producers predominated the microbial flora followed by Lactobacillus spp. For treated samples with O2 absorber, B. thermosphacta formed the major micro-flora followed by Lactobacillus spp. The use of O2 absorber inhibited the growth of Pseudomonas spp., and total Enterobacteriaceae.
Ice	12929137	Caspase-1	Early NFkappaB activation is inhibited during focal cerebral ischemia in interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme deficient mice.Our previous study demonstrated that the inhibition of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) reduces ischemic brain injury; however, the molecular mechanism of the action of IL-1 in cerebral ischemia is unclear. We are investigating currently the role of NFkappaB during focal cerebral ischemia, using mutant mice deficient in the interleukin-1 converting enzyme gene (<e>ICE</e> KO) in a middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model. Adult male ICE KO and wild-type mice (n = 120) underwent up to 24 hr of permanent MCAO. Cytoplasmic phospho-NFkappaB/p65 expression in ischemic brain was examined using Western blot analysis and immunohistochemistry. NFkappaB DNA-binding activity was detected using electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). Furthermore, ICAM-1 expression was examined in both the ICE KO and wild-type mice (WT). Western blot analysis and immunostaining showed that the level of cytosolic phosphorylated NFkappaB/p65 increased after 2 and 4 hr of MCAO in WT mice; however, NFkappaB/p65 was significantly reduced after MCAO in the ICE KO mice (P &lt; 0.05). EMSA showed that NFkappaB DNA-binding activity increased after MCAO in WT mice; but this effect was reduced in the ICE KO mice. The number of ICAM-1-positive vessels in the ischemic hemisphere was greatly attenuated in the ICE KO mice (P &lt; 0.05), which paralleled the results of immunohistochemistry. Our results demonstrate that NFkappaB phosphorylation is reduced in ICE KO mice, suggesting that ICE or IL-1 are involved in early NFkappaB phosphorylation. Because cerebral ischemia induced infarction is significantly reduced in ICE KO mice, we conclude that early NFkappaB phosphorylation plays a disruptive role in the ischemic process.
Ice	16827187	Caspase-1	Protective effect of isoflurane and sevoflurane on ischemic neurons and expression of Bcl-2 and <e>ICE</e> genes in rat brain.OBJECTIVE: To study the protective effect of volatile anesthetics, isoflurane and sevoflurane, on ischemic neurons after cerebral ischemia-reperfusion in rats and its possible molecular mechanism. METHODS: Rat cerebral ischemia-reperfusion model was developed by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) and bilateral common carotid arteries (CCAs) 1 h after reperfusion. Using flow cytometry (FCM) and Northern blot hybridization, we calculated the number of apoptotic bodies and detected the expression of bcl-2 mRNA and interleukin-1beta converting enzyme (ICE) mRNA. RESULTS: The apoptotic bodies in hippocampus analyzed by FCM peaked at appeared 24 h after reperfusion, and decreased about 54% and 40%, respectively, after treatment with isoflurane and sevoflurane, as compared with ischemic group. There was no significant difference in the expression of bcl-2 mRNA and ICE mRNA between the inhaled anesthetic groups and ischemic group in hippocampus 24 h after MCA/CCAs occlusion. CONCLUSION: Isoflurane and sevoflurane partially inhibit apoptosis but have no significant effect on the expression of bcl-2 and ICE genes.
Ice	20402585	Ice	Urea, glycolic acid, and glycerol in an organic residue produced by ultraviolet irradiation of interstellar/pre-cometary <e>ice</e> analogs.More than 50 stable organic molecules have been detected in the interstellar medium (ISM), from ground-based and onboard-satellite astronomical observations, in the gas and solid phases. Some of these organics may be prebiotic compounds that were delivered to early Earth by comets and meteorites and may have triggered the first chemical reactions involved in the origin of life. Ultraviolet irradiation of ices simulating photoprocesses of cold solid matter in astrophysical environments have shown that photochemistry can lead to the formation of amino acids and related compounds. In this work, we experimentally searched for other organic molecules of prebiotic interest, namely, oxidized acid labile compounds. In a setup that simulates conditions relevant to the ISM and Solar System icy bodies such as comets, a condensed CH(3)OH:NH(3) = 1:1 ice mixture was UV irradiated at approximately 80 K. The molecular constituents of the nonvolatile organic residue that remained at room temperature were separated by capillary gas chromatography and identified by mass spectrometry. Urea, glycolic acid, and glycerol were detected in this residue, as well as hydroxyacetamide, glycerolic acid, and glycerol amide. These organics are interesting target molecules to be searched for in space. Finally, tentative mechanisms of formation for these compounds under interstellar/pre-cometary conditions are proposed.
Ice	12168884	Caspase-1	Serum concentrations of APO-1/Fas and interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme in osteosarcoma correlate with response to chemotherapy.BACKGROUND: Cytotoxic drugs used in neoadjuvant chemotherapy may exert their effect by activation of apoptosis. Both APO-1/Fas and Interleukin-1beta-converting (<e>ICE</e>)/caspase-1 are believed to act as mediators of apoptotic cell death. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The sera of 21 patients with high-grade osteosarcoma were tested at the time of diagnosis by ELISA and compared with clinical data. RESULTS: The mean APO-1 serum levels were 844 +/- 344 pg ml(-1) and the mean ICE serum levels were 212 pg ml(-1) +/- 155 pg ml(-1) for all patients. Furthermore, both serum levels were found to be statistically significantly higher in patients with good regression grades compared to those in patients with bad regression grades. CONCLUSION: In highly-malignant osteosarcoma elevated serum levels of both APO-1 and ICE seem to be predictive of good response to chemotherapy.
Ice	17262233	Methamphetamine	[Optic neuropathy induced by prenatal drug or alcohol exposure]PURPOSE: The main aim of this work was to analyse the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in retinal and optic nerve development, and the consequences of methamphetamine  <e>ice</e>  (MA) or alcohol (EtOH) abuse during pregnancy on the developing visual system. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Wistar rats were exposed to MA or EtOH during gestation and lactation and their offspring studied. Control isocaloric rats were maintained in parallel. The eyes and optic nerves from pups (at 7, 14 and 21 postnatal days) were processed using morphologic, morphometric and western blot approaches using antibodies against glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), myelin basic protein (MBP) and neurofilament protein (NFP). RESULTS: Statistically significant differences were observed between the methamphetamine-exposed and the alcohol-exposed rats, as compared to the controls. The optic nerve cross-sectional area was smaller in the drug or alcohol-exposed animals. The expression of developmental protein markers (GFAP and MBP) in the retina and optic nerve displayed striking alterations related to drug or alcohol abuse during gestation and lactation. CONCLUSIONS: Psychostimulant and alcohol exposure alters the development of the retina and optic nerve.
Ice	16782334	Caspase-1	Synthesis and evaluation of novel 1-(2-acylhydrazinocarbonyl)-cycloalkyl carboxamides as interleukin-1beta converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>) inhibitors.Novel 1-(2-acylhydrazinocarbonyl)cycloalkyl carboxamides were designed as peptidomimetic inhibitors of interleukin-1beta converting enzyme (ICE). A short synthesis was developed and moderately potent ICE inhibitors were identified (IC(50) values &lt;100 nM). Most of the synthesized examples were selective for ICE versus the related cysteine proteases caspase-3 and caspase-8, although several dual-acting inhibitors of ICE and caspase-8 were identified. Several of the more potent ICE inhibitors were also shown to inhibit IL-1beta production in a whole cell assay (IC(50) &lt; 500 nM).
Ice	12639813	Caspase-1	Reduced apoptosis by pentoxiphylline among patients with HIV infection.BACKGROUND: Apoptosis is a significant cause of CD4(+) T cell death. Caspase 8 (FLICE) is involved in apoptosis mediated by Fas and p55 tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor ligation. It is also partially mediated by interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta)-converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>; caspase 1). We and others have shown that pentoxiphylline inhibits TNF-alpha. We used it among patients with HIV infection to determine if 24 weeks of therapy altered the levels of caspase 1 and caspase 8. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Nineteen HIV-infected patients having no opportunistic infection at the time of recruitment were administered pentoxiphylline 400 mg thrice daily for 24 weeks. Caspase levels were measured using a single-step ELISA using commercially available monoclonal antibodies against caspase 1 and caspase 8. RESULTS: Mean CD4 counts of the patients were 202.6+/-111.6 (/mm(3)). Mean OD value of caspase 1 among patients before therapy was 0.302+/-0.197 and was higher than that of controls (0.287+/-0.064), but this was not statistically significant. Following 24 weeks of therapy with pentoxiphylline, the OD value declined significantly to 0.164+/-0.028 among patients (p&lt;0.001). Mean OD value of caspase 8 among patients prior to therapy was 0.927+/-0.249. This was significantly higher than that of controls, whose level was 0.0074+/-0.004 (p&lt;0.001). Following 24 weeks of therapy with pentoxiphylline, the OD value declined to 0.199+/-0.064 among patients and this was significantly lower than the value at the start of treatment (p&lt;0.001). CONCLUSION: Therapy with pentoxiphylline for 24 weeks is associated with a decline in the levels of caspase 1 and caspase 8. Since the drug is known to produce TNF inhibition, this might result in reduced apoptosis and an improved CD4 lymphocyte survival.
Ice	15845887	Caspase-1	Proapoptotic effects of caspase-1/interleukin-converting enzyme dominate in myocardial ischemia.Caspase-1/interleukin-converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>) is a cysteine protease traditionally considered to have importance as an inflammatory mediator, but not as an apoptotic effector. Because of the dual functions of this caspase, the pathophysiological impact of its reported upregulation in hypertrophy and heart failure is not known. Here, the consequences of increased myocardial expression of procaspase-1 were examined on the normal and ischemically injured heart. In unstressed mouse hearts with a 30-fold increase in procaspase-1 content, unprocessed procaspase-1 was well tolerated, without detectable pathology. Cardiomyocyte processing and activation of caspase-1 and caspase-3 occurred after administration of endotoxin or with transient myocardial ischemia. In post-ischemic hearts, procaspase-1 overexpression was associated with strikingly increased cardiac myocyte apoptosis in the peri- and noninfarct regions and with 50% larger myocardial infarctions. Tissue culture studies revealed that procaspase-1 processing/activation is stimulated by hypoxia, and that caspase-1 acts in synergy with hypoxia to stimulate caspase-3 mediated apoptosis without activating upstream caspases. These data demonstrate that the proapoptotic effects of caspase-1 can significantly impact the myocardial response to ischemia and suggest that conditions in which procaspase-1 in the heart is increased may predispose to apoptotic myocardial injury under conditions of physiological stress.
Ice	17407427	Methamphetamine	<e>Ice</e>: cool drug or real problem?
Ice	19544867	Ice	Mercury trends in ringed seals (Phoca hispida) from the western Canadian Arctic since 1973: associations with length of <e>ice</e>-free season.We examined a unique time series of ringed seal (Phoca hispida) samples collected from a single location in the western Canadian Arctic between 1973 and 2007 to test for changes in total mercury (THg) in muscle tissue associated with (1) year and (2) length of ice-free season. We found no temporal trend with muscle THg whereas a curvilinear relationship existed with the length of ice-free season: seals attaimed higher THg in short (2 months) and long (5 months) ice-free seasons. delta 15N and delta13C in muscle tissue did not illustrate significant trends with ice-free days. We estimated that the turnover time of THg in muscle was about twice as long as stable isotope turnover in muscle, possibly explaining the lack of trend with stable isotopes in association with ice-free duration. Our discussion explains how summer environmental conditions may influence the composition of prey (mercury exposure) available to ringed seals. Results offer insight into how marine mammals may respond to directional changes in the Arctic ice-free season.
Ice	20299586	Ice	An evolving view of Saturn's dynamic rings.We review our understanding of Saturn's rings after nearly 6 years of observations by the Cassini spacecraft. Saturn's rings are composed mostly of water <e>ice</e> but also contain an undetermined reddish contaminant. The rings exhibit a range of structure across many spatial scales; some of this involves the interplay of the fluid nature and the self-gravity of innumerable orbiting centimeter- to meter-sized particles, and the effects of several peripheral and embedded moonlets, but much remains unexplained. A few aspects of ring structure change on time scales as short as days. It remains unclear whether the vigorous evolutionary processes to which the rings are subject imply a much younger age than that of the solar system. Processes on view at Saturn have parallels in circumstellar disks.
Ice	14763553	Caspase-1	EI-2128-1, a novel interleukin-1beta converting enzyme inhibitor produced by Penicillium sp. E-2128.EI-2128-1, a novel interleukin-1beta converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>) inhibitor, was isolated from the culture broths of Penicillium sp. E-2128. EI-2128-1 selectively inhibited human recombinant ICE activity with IC50 value of 0.59 microM, without inhibiting elastase and cathepsin B. EI-2128-1 also inhibited mature interleukin-1beta secretion from THP-1 cells induced by LPS with IC50 value of 0.28 microM.
Ice	15383541	Caspase-1	INCA, a novel human caspase recruitment domain protein that inhibits interleukin-1beta generation.Using in silico methods for screening the human genome for new caspase recruitment domain (CARD) proteins, we have identified INCA (Inhibitory CARD) as a protein that shares 81% identity with the prodomain of caspase-1. The INCA gene is located on chromosome 11q22 between the genes of COP/Pseudo-<e>ICE</e> and ICEBERG, two other CARD proteins that arose from caspase-1 gene duplications. We show that INCA mRNA is expressed in many tissues. INCA is specifically upregulated by interferon-gamma in the monocytic cell lines THP-1 and U937. INCA physically interacts with procaspase-1 and blocks the release of mature IL-1beta from LPS-stimulated macrophages. Unlike COP/Pseudo-ICE and procaspase-1, INCA does not interact with RIP2 and does not induce NF-kappaB activation. Our data show that INCA is a novel intracellular regulator of procaspase-1 activation, involved in the regulation of pro-IL-1beta processing and its release during inflammation.
Ice	15858021	Caspase-1	The Nef-mediated AIDS-like disease of CD4C/human immunodeficiency virus transgenic mice is associated with increased Fas/FasL expression on T cells and T-cell death but is not prevented in Fas-, FasL-, tumor necrosis factor receptor 1-, or interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme-deficient or Bcl2-expressing transgenic mice.CD4(+)- and CD8(+)-T-cell death is a frequent immunological dysfunction associated with the development of human AIDS. We studied a murine model of AIDS, the CD4C/HIV transgenic (Tg) mouse model, to assess the importance of the apoptotic pathway in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) pathogenesis. In these Tg mice, Nef is the major determinant of the disease and is expressed in immature and mature CD4(+) T cells and in cells of the macrophage/myeloid lineage. We report here a novel AIDS-like phenotype: enhanced death, most likely by apoptosis (as assessed by 7-aminoactinomycin D and annexin V/propidium iodide staining), of Tg thymic and peripheral CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells. The Tg CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells were also more susceptible to cell death after activation in vitro in mixed lymph node (LN) cultures. However, activation-induced cell death was not higher in Tg than in non-Tg-purified CD4(+) T cells. In addition, expression of Fas and FasL, assessed by flow cytometry, was increased in CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells from Tg mice compared to that of non-Tg littermates. Despite the enhanced expression of Fas and FasL on Tg CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells, Fas (lpr/lpr) and FasL (gld/gld) mutant CD4C/HIV Tg mice developed an AIDS-like disease indistinguishable from lpr/+ and gld/+ CD4C/HIV Tg mice, including loss of CD4(+) T cells. Similarly, CD4C/HIV Tg mice homozygous for mutations of two other genes implicated in cell death (interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme [<e>ICE</e>], tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 [TNFR-1]) developed similar AIDS-like disease as their respective heterozygous controls. Moreover, the double-Tg mice from a cross between the Bcl2/Wehi25 and CD4C/HIV Tg mice showed no major protection against disease. These results represent genetic evidence for the dispensable role of Fas, FasL, ICE, and TNFR-1 on the development of both T-cell loss and organ disease of these Tg mice. They also provide compelling evidence on the lack of protection by Bcl2 against Tg CD4(+)-T-cell death. In view of the high resemblance between numerous phenotypes observed in the CD4C/HIV Tg mice and in human AIDS, our findings are likely to be relevant for the human disease.
Ice	20185615	Ice	Motor and sensory nerve conduction are affected differently by <e>ice</e> pack, ice massage, and cold water immersion.BACKGROUND: It is well known that reducing tissue temperature changes sensory and motor nerve conduction. However, few studies have compared the effect of different cold modalities on nerve conduction parameters. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of ice pack, ice massage, and cold water immersion on the conduction parameters of the sural (sensorial) and tibial motor nerves. DESIGN: An experimental study was conducted in which the participants were randomly assigned to 1 of 3 intervention groups (n=12 per group). Independent variables were cold modality and pre- and post-cooling measurement time. Dependent variables were skin temperature and nerve conduction parameters. METHODS: Thirty-six people who were healthy, with a mean (SD) age of 20.5 (1.9) years, participated in the study. Each group received 1 of the 3 cold modalities, applied to the right calf region for 15 minutes. Skin temperature and nerve conduction parameters were measured before and immediately after cooling. RESULTS: All 3 modalities reduced skin temperature (mean=18.2 degrees C). There also was a reduction in amplitude and an increase in latency and duration of the compound action potential. Ice massage, ice pack, and cold water immersion reduced sensory nerve conduction velocity (NCV) by 20.4, 16.7, and 22.6 m/s and motor NCV by 2.5, 2.1, and 8.3 m/s, respectively. Cold water immersion was the most effective modality in changing nerve conduction parameters. LIMITATIONS: The cooling area of the ice massage and ice pack was smaller than that of the cold water immersion. The examiner was not blinded to the treatment group. The population included only participants who were healthy and young. CONCLUSIONS: All 3 modalities were effective in reducing skin temperature and changing sensory conduction at a physiological level that is sufficient to induce a hypoalgesic effect. The results suggest that cold water immersion, as applied in this study, is the most indicated modality for inducing therapeutic effects associated with the reduction of motor nerve conduction.
Ice	12537703	Methamphetamine	The emergence of potent forms of methamphetamine in Sydney, Australia: a case study of the IDRS as a strategic early warning system.A striking finding of the Illicit Drug Reporting System (IDRS) in recent years has concerned the emergence in Sydney of a number of different forms of potent methamphetamine. This paper demonstrates the operation of the IDRS in detecting and documenting an increase in both the availability and use of these forms of methamphetamine in Sydney, and Australia more widely, since 1998. Data from different components of the IDRS are utilized to propose that there are currently at least three forms of methamphetamine available in Sydney that are considered by the market to be distinct commodities: methamphetamine powder ('speed'), base methamphetamine ('base') and crystalline methamphetamine ('<e>ice</e>'/'shabu'/'crystal meth'). Base and ice are more potent forms of methamphetamine than speed, and international experience, along with preliminary data obtained from the IDRS, suggest that their use is associated with harms in a number of domains.
Ice	13129693	Caspase-1	Pralnacasan, an inhibitor of interleukin-1beta converting enzyme, reduces joint damage in two murine models of osteoarthritis.OBJECTIVE: To study the effect of pralnacasan, the orally bioavailable pro-drug of a potent, non-peptide inhibitor of interleukin-1beta converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>), RU 36384/VRT-18858, on joint damage in two mouse models of knee osteoarthritis (OA). DESIGN: In a collagenase-induced OA model, pralnacasan was given orally by gavage to female Balb/c mice at 0, 12.5, 25 and 50 mg/kg twice a day. In the second study, pralnacasan was tested in male STR/1N mice, which develop OA spontaneously, by administering food-drug mixtures ad libitum at concentrations of 0, 700 and 4200 ppm (mg/kg food). OA joint damage was assessed by a semi-quantitative histopathological score in both studies. In the STR/1N mouse study, urinary levels of collagen cross-links hydroxylysylpyridinoline (HP) and lysylpyridinoline (LP) were determined by high-pressure liquid chromatography at baseline, after 3 and 6 weeks of treatment and RU 36384/VRT-18858 plasma concentrations was measured after 6 weeks. RESULTS: In both studies, the mice developed moderate to severe knee joint OA in the medial joint compartments (tibial plateau and femoral condyle), the non-treated control groups showing median histopathological scores from 18 to 21 of a maximal score of 32. Pralnacasan was well tolerated. At the doses of 12.5 and 50 mg/kg in collagenase-induced OA and at the high dose of 4200 ppm in STR/1N mice pralnacasan treatment significantly reduced OA by 13-22%. In the STR/1N mice, urinary levels of HP cross-links and the ratio of HP/LP, which are indicators of joint damage in OA, were significantly reduced in the high dose group by 59 and 84%, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: The ICE inhibitor pralnacasan reduced joint damage in two experimental models of OA and has the potential to become a disease-modifying drug for the treatment of OA.
Ice	19046143	Caspase-1	LPS increases the expression levels of IL-18, <e>ICE</e> and IL-18 R in mouse testes.PROBLEM: This study examined the effect of intraperitoneal administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to adult male mouse on the expression levels of interleukin-18 (IL-18), IL-18 receptor (IL-18R) and the IL-1beta converting enzyme (ICE) (IL-18 family) in their testes and spleen (control). METHOD OF STUDY: Adult mice were injected (intraperitoneally; i.p.) with saline (control) or LPS (2, 20, 100 microg/mL; 100 microL/mouse). After 3 and 24 hr, testes and spleen were collected. Testicular tissue was examined for IL-18 (by ELISA, real time PCR, and western blot analysis), IL-18R and ICE (western blot and real time PCR analysis) and spleen tissue was examined for the IL-18 family by real time PCR analysis. Student's t-test was used for statistical analysis. RESULTS: Homogenates of mouse testes contain and express basal levels of IL-18, ICE and IL-18 R. The expression levels of IL-18, ICE and IL-18R were significantly increased 3 and 24 hr after intraperitoneal injection of LPS to mature mouse, as examined by ELISA, western blot and real time PCR analysis. However, the expression levels of IL-18, ICE and IL-18Ralpha in the spleen increased significantly only after 24 hr of LPS stimulation, as examined by real time PCR. CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that LPS increases the expression levels of the IL-18 family in mouse testis and spleen, but the time of expression differs between the two organs. The presence of IL-18 in the testes might be involved in the regulation of physiological and infection/inflammatory processes, and may be part of the autocrine/paracrine factors that control spermatogenesis. Further studies should be performed to confirm this possibility.
Ice	18707575	Methamphetamine	Comparison of crystalline methamphetamine ( <e>ice</e> ) users and other patients with toxicology-related problems presenting to a hospital emergency department.
Ice	20058107	Ice	Determination of end point of primary drying in freeze-drying process control.Freeze-drying is a relatively expensive process requiring long processing time, and hence one of the key objectives during freeze-drying process development is to minimize the primary drying time, which is the longest of the three steps in freeze-drying. However, increasing the shelf temperature into secondary drying before all of the <e>ice</e> is removed from the product will likely cause collapse or eutectic melt. Thus, from product quality as well as process economics standpoint, it is very critical to detect the end of primary drying. Experiments were conducted with 5% mannitol and 5% sucrose as model systems. The apparent end point of primary drying was determined by comparative pressure measurement (i.e., Pirani vs. MKS Baratron), dew point, Lyotrack (gas plasma spectroscopy), water concentration from tunable diode laser absorption spectroscopy, condenser pressure, pressure rise test (manometric temperature measurement or variations of this method), and product thermocouples. Vials were pulled out from the drying chamber using a sample thief during late primary and early secondary drying to determine percent residual moisture either gravimetrically or by Karl Fischer, and the cake structure was determined visually for melt-back, collapse, and retention of cake structure at the apparent end point of primary drying (i.e., onset, midpoint, and offset). By far, the Pirani is the best choice of the methods tested for evaluation of the end point of primary drying. Also, it is a batch technique, which is cheap, steam sterilizable, and easy to install without requiring any modification to the existing dryer.
Ice	2293467	Methamphetamine	Methamphetamine. Stimulant of the 1990s?During the past several years, the use of a smokable form of methamphetamine hydrochloride called  <e>ice</e>  has increased rapidly. The heaviest use has occurred on the West Coast and in Hawaii. Many regional emergency departments treat more methamphetamine users than cocaine-intoxicated patients. The ease of synthesis from inexpensive and readily available chemicals makes possible the rampant abuse of a dangerous drug that can produce a euphoria similar to that induced by cocaine. Clinicians should be familiar with the medical effects and treatment of acute methamphetamine toxicity.
Ice	17541728	Caspase-1	Molecular cloning and characterization of Hearm caspase-1 from Helicoverpa armigera.Members of the caspase family play a central and evolutionary role in programmed cell death (PCD), which removes unwanted, damaged and dangerous cells during development to maintain homeostasis. In this paper, we describe the cloning and characterization of a caspase from the cotton bollworm, Helicoverpa armigera, named Hearm caspase-1. The 1,350 bp full-length cDNA contains an 885 bp open reading frame (ORF) that encodes a Hearm caspase-1 proenzyme of 294 amino acids. The deduced protein is highly homologous to Spodoptera frugiperda Sf caspase-1 and Drosophila melanogaster <e>ICE</e> and has the highly conserved pentapeptide QACQG, the recognized catalytic site of caspases, suggesting that it is an effector caspase of the cotton bollworm. Northern blot and RT-PCR analyses demonstrate that Hearm caspase-1 is expressed in embryos and the fat body, midgut and haemocytes of feeding and wandering larvae. Expression of Hearm caspase-1 in the haemocytes appears to be correlated with the pulse of ecdysone, and it is up-regulated by ecdysone agonist RH-2485, implying that Hearm caspase-1 activation is regulated by ecdysone.
Ice	12396474	Caspase-1	Increased apoptosis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells in patients with perennial allergic asthma/rhinitis: relation to serum markers of apoptosis.BACKGROUND: The goal of our study was to examine spontaneous and stimulated apoptosis of peripheral blood MNC from allergic patients, sensitized to Der p I antigen as compared to cells from non-atopic subjects. Furthermore we aimed to investigate which populations of mononuclear cells (lymphocytes, monocytes) undergo the apoptosis and to determine relations between apoptosis and serum levels of sFas/APO-1, <e>ICE</e>/caspase-1 or TNF-alpha. METHODS: The study included 17 patients with perennial, allergic asthma and/or allergic rhinitis [6 male and 11 female; mean age 29,5 years; (range 15-49)]. Apoptosis was assessed by fluorescence technique and confirmed by flow-cytometric method and DNA ladder. Serum levels of sFas, ICE/caspase-1 or TNF-alpha were determined by immunoassays (ELISA). RESULTS: Apoptotic index of unfractionated mononuclear cells (MNC) and lymphocytes (but not monocytes) were significantly higher in allergic patients as compared to non-allergic subjects after 48 and 72 hours of culture (p&lt;0.05). Incubation of cells with ConA (10 microg/ml) resulted in a significant increase in the proportion of apoptotic cells in all populations once the apoptotic index for MNC and lymphocytes (but not monocytes) was again significantly higher in allergic as compared to non-allergic subjects after 24, 48 and 72 hour of culture. In allergic patients, mean serum sFas level, was significantly lower then in non-allergic group (mean value 624.8 pg/ml +/- 25.67 versus 802.0 pg/ml +/- 31.91; p = 0.003) and in both groups sFas level correlated inversely with apoptosis of MNC. The mean ICE/caspase-1 concentration was significantly higher in sera of allergic patients as compared to non-allergic group (mean value 27.71 pg/ml +/- 3.79 vs 23.54 pg/ml respectively; p&lt;0.01). ICE/caspase-1 levels in allergic patients correlated with apoptotic index of mononuclear cells (r = 0.57; p&lt;0.001). CONCLUSIONS: An increased spontaneous and mitogen-induced apoptosis of MNC from peripheral blood of atopic patients as well as different serum levels of sFas and ICE/caspase-1 correlating with apoptosis, suggest different regulation of apoptotic process in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with allergic asthma and/or rhinitis.
Ice	19680220	Ice	Pseudo-outbreak of legionnaires disease among patients undergoing bronchoscopy - Arizona, 2008.Legionnaires disease (LD) is a potentially fatal form of pneumonia acquired by inhalation of aerosolized water containing Legionella bacteria. Legionella is a common cause of health-care--associated pneumonia, particularly in settings with hematopoietic stem-cell or solid-organ transplant recipients. On July 25, 2008, the Arizona Department of Health Services (ADHS) notified CDC of four patients who had Legionella cultured from specimens obtained during bronchoscopies performed at a medical center in Arizona. To characterize transmission and identify the source, ADHS and CDC began an investigation on August 1. This report summarizes the results of that investigation, which determined that the patients did not have LD and that nonsterile <e>ice</e> used to cool saline-filled syringes for bronchoalveolar lavage was the likely source of Legionella contamination of these clinical specimens. Ice was supplied by two ice machines, which became contaminated by heavy Legionella colonization within the center's potable water supply during a 6-month period (February--July 2008). Findings from the investigation underscore the importance of adherence to recommended infection control practices and surveillance for LD in health-care settings. Clinicians and endoscopy technicians should ensure that nonsterile items are not introduced during bronchoscopy procedures.
Ice	15326138	Caspase-1	Caspase-1 inhibitor reduces severity of pseudomonas aeruginosa keratitis in mice.PURPOSE: To test an inhibitor of IL-1beta converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>), with or without ciprofloxacin, in a C57BL/6 mouse model of keratitis induced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa in which corneal perforation is expected. METHODS: Clinical score, histopathology, myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, bacterial counts, and ELISA analysis were used to assess the efficacy of treatment initiated at 18 hours postinfection (p.i.) with ICE inhibitor versus placebo; and with ICE inhibitor plus ciprofloxacin versus placebo plus ciprofloxacin. Efficacy of the ICE inhibitor was also tested and evaluated for clinical score in experimental corneal infection induced by a clinical isolate and a ciprofloxacin-resistant bacterial strain. RESULTS: Clinical scores were reduced at 3, 5, and 7 days p.i. in ICE inhibitor versus placebo-treated mice; reduced scores also were observed with a combined treatment (ICE inhibitor and ciprofloxacin). Further testing (MPO assay) revealed reduced PMN number, particularly striking in ICE inhibitor and ciprofloxacin versus placebo and ciprofloxacin-treated mice. Corneal protein levels for IL-1beta and MIP-2 also were reduced in mice treated with the ICE inhibitor versus placebo and in ICE inhibitor and ciprofloxacin versus ciprofloxacin and placebo-treated mice. Treatment with ICE inhibitor also reduced clinical scores after corneal infection with a clinical isolate, KEI-1025, and with a ciprofloxacin-resistant P. aeruginosa strain. CONCLUSIONS: Downregulation of IL-1beta by ICE together with ciprofloxacin to kill bacteria may provide alternate therapy to current treatment.
Ice	20223984	Ice	Gravity field, shape, and moment of inertia of Titan.Precise radio tracking of the spacecraft Cassini has provided a determination of Titan's mass and gravity harmonics to degree 3. The quadrupole field is consistent with a hydrostatically relaxed body shaped by tidal and rotational effects. The inferred moment of inertia factor is about 0.34, implying incomplete differentiation, either in the sense of imperfect separation of rock from <e>ice</e> or a core in which a large amount of water remains chemically bound in silicates. The equilibrium figure is a triaxial ellipsoid whose semi-axes a, b, and c differ by 410 meters (a-c) and 103 meters (b-c). The nonhydrostatic geoid height variations (up to 19 meters) are small compared to the observed topographic anomalies of hundreds of meters, suggesting a high degree of compensation appropriate to a body that has warm ice at depth.
Ice	18368603	Methamphetamine	The prevalence of methamphetamine and amphetamine abuse in North America: a review of the indicators, 1992-2007.INTRODUCTION: This paper reviews epidemiological information about methamphetamine production and use in North America. METHODS: Information is drawn from a range of sources, including, but not limited to, historical accounts, peer-reviewed papers, population surveys and large national databases. RESULTS: Methamphetamine and amphetamine use in North America is characterised by geographic variations, with different types of the drug, different routes of administration and different types of users at various times. Unlike some other drug use patterns in North America, the nature of methamphetamine use in Canada, Mexico and the United States has been linked closely in terms of production and supply of the drug. According to their national household surveys, the annual prevalence for 'speed' use in Canada was 0.8% in 2004, 0.3% for 'anfetaminas' and 0.1% for 'metanfetaminas' in Mexico in 2002, and 1.4% for 'stimulants' in the United States in 2006. DISCUSSION: Although the data sources in the three North American countries are not consistent in methodology, terminology or frequency of reporting, all show similar trends. The type of stimulant most used has shifted from non-medical use of pharmaceutical amphetamine to use of powder methamphetamine and then to use of '<e>ice</e>'. The indicators show the problem is greatest in the western parts of the countries and is moving eastward, but the decreased availability of pseudoephedrine may have a significant impact on the nature of the epidemic in the future. Nevertheless, use of methamphetamine poses a number of risks for users and specialised treatment resources for these various populations are needed.
Ice	19708116	Ice	<e>Ice</e> recrystallization kinetics in the presence of synthetic antifreeze glycoprotein analogues using the framework of LSW theory.The Ostwald ripening of polycrystalline ice in aqueous sucrose solutions was investigated experimentally. The kinetics of this ice recrystallization process was studied at temperatures between -6 and -10 degrees C and varying ice volume fractions. Using the theory of Lifshitz, Slyozov, and Wagner (LSW), the diffusion-limited rate constant for ice recrystallization was determined. Also, the effects of synthetic analogues of natural antifreeze glycoproteins (AFGP) were studied. These analogues synAFGPmi (i = 3-5) contained monosaccharide side groups instead of disaccharide side groups that occur in natural AFGP. In order to account for the inhibition effect of the synAFGPmi, we have modified classical LSW theory, allowing for the derivation of inhibition rate constants. It was found that the investigated synAFGPmi inhibit ice recrystallization at concentrations down to approximately 3 microg mL(-1) or, equivalently, approximately 1 micromol L(-1) for the largest synAFGPmi investigated: synAFGPm5. Hence, our new method is capable of quantitatively assessing the efficiency of very similar AFGP with a sensitivity that is at least 2 orders of magnitude larger than that typical for quantitative thermal hysteresis measurements.
Ice	19502432	Ice	Characterization of airborne microbial communities at a high-elevation site and their potential to act as atmospheric <e>ice</e> nuclei.Bacteria and fungi are ubiquitous in the atmosphere. The diversity and abundance of airborne microbes may be strongly influenced by atmospheric conditions or even influence atmospheric conditions themselves by acting as ice nucleators. However, few comprehensive studies have described the diversity and dynamics of airborne bacteria and fungi based on culture-independent techniques. We document atmospheric microbial abundance, community composition, and ice nucleation at a high-elevation site in northwestern Colorado. We used a standard small-subunit rRNA gene Sanger sequencing approach for total microbial community analysis and a bacteria-specific 16S rRNA bar-coded pyrosequencing approach (4,864 sequences total). During the 2-week collection period, total microbial abundances were relatively constant, ranging from 9.6 x 10(5) to 6.6 x 10(6) cells m(-3) of air, and the diversity and composition of the airborne microbial communities were also relatively static. Bacteria and fungi were nearly equivalent, and members of the proteobacterial groups Burkholderiales and Moraxellaceae (particularly the genus Psychrobacter) were dominant. These taxa were not always the most abundant in freshly fallen snow samples collected at this site. Although there was minimal variability in microbial abundances and composition within the atmosphere, the number of biological ice nuclei increased significantly during periods of high relative humidity. However, these changes in ice nuclei numbers were not associated with changes in the relative abundances of the most commonly studied ice-nucleating bacteria.
Ice	18803173	Methamphetamine	 <e>Ice</e>  use and eating disorders: a report of three cases.OBJECTIVE: To describe the use of crystal methamphetamine hydrochloride  ice,  a powerful, synthetic stimulant drug associated with rapid weight loss. METHOD: We report the first three cases of young women  ice  users requiring admission to a specialized eating disorders unit. RESULTS: Case one had no prior history of an eating disorder and became emaciated following regular use of  ice ; she regarded weight gain positively. Case 2 had polysubstance abuse since early adolescence and commenced binge eating and vomiting in response to weight gain when not using  ice ; she learned to maintain her weight without weight losing behaviors. Case 3 developed anorexia nervosa in early adolescence, required numerous inpatient admissions and commenced using stimulant drugs for weight loss in her late teens; she discharged prematurely. All patients had features of personality disorder on interview and drug abuse had impaired their work and social adjustment. DISCUSSION:  Ice  use may be associated with the onset of disordered eating or used as an efficient weight losing behavior in an established eating disorder.
Ice	20121260	Ice	308 nm photolysis of nitric acid in the gas phase, on aluminum surfaces, and on <e>ice</e> films.We have studied the photolysis of nitric acid (HNO(3)) in the gas phase at 253 and 295 K, on aluminum surfaces at 253 and 295 K, and on ice films at 253 K, by using 308 nm excimer laser photolysis combined with cavity ring-down spectroscopy. We monitored both the ground-state NO(2) and the electronically excited NO(2), NO(2)*, produced from the HNO(3) photolysis. NO(2)* + OH is a predominant photolysis pathway (if not the only photolysis pathway) from the gas-phase photolysis of HNO(3) at 308 nm. The NO(2)* quantum yields from the HNO(3) photolysis on aluminum surfaces are 0.80 +/- 0.15 at 295 K and 0.92 +/- 0.26 at 253 K, where errors quoted represent 2sigma measurement uncertainty. The corresponding NO(2)* quantum yield from the HNO(3) photolysis on ice films is 0.60 +/- 0.34 at 253 K. The 308 nm absorption cross sections of HNO(3) on Al surfaces and on ice films have been directly measured. Absorption cross sections of HNO(3) on Al surface at 308 nm are (4.19 +/- 0.17) x 10(-18) and (4.23 +/- 0.45) x 10(-18) cm(2)/molecule at 253 and at 295 K, whereas the corresponding absorption cross section of HNO(3) on ice films is (1.21 +/- 0.31) x 10(-18) cm(2)/molecule at 253 K (errors quoted represent 2sigma measurement uncertainty). Atmospheric implications of the results are discussed.
Ice	18299270	Caspase-1	Over-expression of IL-18, <e>ICE</e> and IL-18 R in testicular tissue from sexually immature as compared to mature mice.In this study we examined the cellular origin and the expression levels of interleukin-18 (IL-18), IL-18 receptor (IL-18R) and IL-1beta-converting enzyme (ICE), which activates pro-IL-18, during normal maturation of murine testis. The levels of IL-18, IL-18R and ICE were significantly higher in testicular tissues and homogenates (but not in the spleen or liver) from sexually immature than mature mice. Immunohistochemical staining of testicular tissues from sexually immature and mature mice shows that testicular germ cells and Leydig cells/interstitial cells express higher levels of IL-18, as compared to other testicular cells. Peritubular cells of sexually immature and mature mice also expressed IL-18. Our results demonstrate, for the first time, over-expression of the IL-18 family in testicular tissues of sexually immature mice, as compared to mature mice, as well as the expression of IL-18 in the different stages of differentiation of testicular germ cells. Thus, our results may indicate involvement of the endocrine system (gonadotropins and testosterone) in the regulation of the testicular IL-18 family, which could be involved in the regulation of testicular functions, development and spermatogenesis under physiological conditions.
Ice	17278232	Caspase-1	Therapeutic effects of caspase-1 inhibitors on acute lung injury in experimental severe acute pancreatitis.AIM: To assess the therapeutic effect of Caspase-1 inhibitors (<e>ICE</e>-I) on acute lung injury (ALI) in experimental severe acute pancreatitis (SAP). METHODS: Forty-two SD rats were randomly divided into 3 groups: healthy controls (HC, n = 6); SAP-S group (n = 18); SAP-ICE-I group (n = 18). SAP was induced by retrograde infusion of 5% sodium taurocholate into the bile-pancreatic duct. HC rats underwent the same surgical procedures and duct cannulation without sodium taurocholate infusion. In SAP-S group, rats received the first intraperitoneal injection of isotonic saline 2 h after induction of acute pancreatitis and a repeated injection after 12 h. In SAP-ICE-I group, the rats were firstly given ICE inhibitors intraperitoneally 2 h after induction of pancreatitis. As in SAP-S group, the injection was repeated at 12 h. Serum IL-1beta was measured by ELISA. Intrapulmonary expression of Caspase-1, IL-1beta and IL-18 mRNA were detected by semi-quantitative RT-PCR. The wet/dry weight ratios and histopathological changes of the lungs were also evaluated. RESULTS: Serum IL-1beta levels in SAP-S group were 276.77 +/- 44.92 pg/mL at 6 h, 308.99 +/- 34.95 pg/mL at 12 h, and 311.60 +/- 46.51 pg/mL at 18 h, which were increased significantly (P &lt; 0.01, vs HC). In SAP-ICE-I group, those values were decreased significantly (P &lt; 0.01, vs SAP-S). Intrapulmonary expression of Caspase-1, IL-1beta and IL-18 mRNA were observed in the HC group, while they were increased significantly in the SAP-S group (P &lt; 0.01, vs HC). The expression of IL-1beta and IL-18 mRNA were decreased significantly in the SAP-ICE-I group (P &lt; 0.01, vs SAP-S), whereas Caspase-1 mRNA expression had no significant difference (P &gt; 0.05). The wet/dry weight ratios of the lungs in the SAP-S group were increased significantly (P &lt; 0.05 at 6 h, P &lt; 0.01 at 12 h and 18 h, vs HC) and they were decreased significantly in the SAP-ICE-I group (P &lt; 0.05, vs SAP-S). Caspase-1 inhibitors ameliorated the severity of ALI in SAP. CONCLUSION: Caspase-1 activation, and overproduction of IL-1beta and IL-18 play an important role in the course of ALI, and Caspase-1 inhibition is effective for the treatment of ALI in experimental SAP.
Ice	14734619	Caspase-1	Roles of caspase-1 in Listeria infection in mice.Caspase-1 [IL-1beta-converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>)] processes substrate precursor molecules to yield the biologically active form of IL-1beta and IL-18, both of which are considered to play important roles in the host defense by activation of both innate and adaptive immunity. We evaluated the immune response of caspase-1(-/-) mice to Listeria monocytogenes (LM) infection. LM eradication in the early phase of infection was impaired in the mutant mice with a prominent decrease in IL-18 and IFN-gamma production, but not in IL-12. Caspase-1(-/-) spleen cells including dendritic cells and NK cells produced less IFN-gamma in response to heat-killed LM than wild-type cells in vitro. IFN-gamma production and bactericidal activity in LM-infected caspase-1(-/-) mice was reconstituted to normal levels by adding back IL-18 at the initial phase of infection, suggesting that the lack of this cytokine is primarily responsible for the susceptibility of caspase-1(-/-) mice against LM infection. Moreover, IFN-gamma injection of caspase-1(-/-) mice corrected the deficiency in pathogen clearance. In contrast, LM-specific acquired immunity in caspase-1(-/-) mice was normal and they successfully cleared the pathogen following secondary infection, in spite of a moderate skewing of cytokine profile to T(h)2 when compared to wild-type mice. These data shed light on the importance of caspase-1-mediated IL-18 processing in innate immunity against facultative intracellular pathogens.
Ice	19842493	Ice	<e>Ice</e> growth in supercooled solutions of a biological  antifreeze , AFGP 1-5: an explanation in terms of adsorption rate for the concentration dependence of the freezing point.It is widely accepted, and we agree, that the lowering of the temperature at which ice can grow in a water solution of one of the biological antifreezes is a result of adsorption of the antifreeze molecules at the ice surface. However, how this can produce a well-defined  freezing point  that varies with the solution concentration has remained problematical. The results of a series of measurements of ice growing in supercooled solutions of an effective antifreeze are reported and interpreted in terms of this fundamental problem. It seemed that the solution of the problem would have to rely upon adsorption rate, because that appeared to be the only way for the concentration in solution to be so important. The crystal growth results are most unusual, and appear to confirm this. The growth rates over a wide range of antifreeze concentration in solution (about 0.05 to 9 mg ml(-1)) are zero from the thermodynamic freezing point down to the  non-equilibrium  freezing point, where there is a very sudden increase to a plateau value that then remains about constant as the supercooling is increased by about 2 degrees C. The plateau values of growth rate are faster than those from pure water at the lower-supercooling ends of the plateaus, but slower at higher supercooling, until the growth rate starts rising toward that from pure water. These plateau values of growth rate increase markedly with increasing concentration of the antifreeze in solution. Along with these changes there are complex changes in the growth orientations, from c-axis spicules in the plateaus to those more characteristic of growth from pure water at greater supercooling. We conclude that the non-equilibrium freezing point is determined by the adsorption rate. It is the warmest temperature at which the ice growth rate on the basal plane (where the antifreeze does not adsorb) is fast enough to prevent the area of basal face on a growing ice crystal from becoming too small to grow, which is determined in turn by the adsorption rate on non-basal surfaces, which is proportional to the solution concentration. This mechanism answers the question of how the antifreeze stops growth rather than how it prevents growth, a subtle but important difference.
Ice	19386010	Caspase-1	Use of gene profiling to evaluate the effects of a feed additive on immune function in periparturient dairy cattle.Objectives were to investigate mechanisms by which a nutritional supplement alters immunity in dairy cattle. Our hypothesis was that feeding this product to dairy cattle altered neutrophil gene expression. Eight periparturient Jersey cattle were randomly assigned to one of two treatments: control and treated. Control animals were fed a dry cow ration for 1 month prior to calving. The treated cows were fed the same ration supplemented with OmniGen-AF. Following calving, blood samples were taken and neutrophils were prepared after which RNA was extracted. Gene expression in neutrophils of treated versus control-fed animals was then assessed using bovine-total leukocyte (BOTL-5) arrays. Eighteen genes were differentially regulated in the experimental group and of these, twice as many were up-regulated as down-regulated. Patterns of changes indicated that the additive might alter neutrophil apoptosis, signaling and sensitivity. Two of the regulated genes [interleukin-1beta converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>) and interleukin-4 receptor (IL-4R)] were investigated in more detail using quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (QRT-PCR). Each was found to be elevated by the feeding of experimental product. Increased expression of ICE indicates potential for enhanced neutrophil expression of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), a cytokine which plays roles in the inflammatory response and which stimulates adaptive immunity following innate immune activation. Altered expression of IL-4R indicates potential for changes in neutrophil apoptosis. The experiment identified mechanisms by which the additive altered neutrophil gene expression. While many nutrients support the immune system, we have shown that a non-traditional nutritional approach may also have utility in modulating immune function.
Ice	15061561	Methamphetamine	Neighborhood environment and opportunity to try methamphetamine ( <e>ice</e> ) and marijuana: evidence from Guam in the Western Pacific region of Micronesia.Although the American popular press and films might generally lead one to think otherwise, illegal drug use and drug trafficking occur outside the boundaries of disadvantaged American inner-city neighborhoods. Nonetheless, the occurrence of youthful drug involvement may be determined by similar community conditions in many parts of the world. In Spring 1998, a probability sample of 776 high school students living in Guam, Micronesia, completed a self-report anonymous survey, one that assessed their village and metropolitan neighborhood environments as well as drug involvement. On Guam, higher levels of neighborhood disadvantage were associated with youths being more likely to have been offered a chance to try drugs. This study adds new evidence on the potential importance of environmental and psychosocial contexts of neighborhood environment that might help account for the nonrandom distribution of youthful drug involvement.
Ice	20011523	Ice	Synchrotron x-ray visualisation of <e>ice</e> formation in insects during lethal and non-lethal freezing.Although the biochemical correlates of freeze tolerance in insects are becoming well-known, the process of ice formation in vivo is subject to speculation. We used synchrotron x-rays to directly visualise real-time ice formation at 3.3 Hz in intact insects. We observed freezing in diapausing 3(rd) instar larvae of Chymomyza amoena (Diptera: Drosophilidae), which survive freezing if it occurs above -14 degrees C, and non-diapausing 3(rd) instar larvae of C. amoena and Drosophila melanogaster (Diptera: Drosophilidae), neither of which survive freezing. Freezing was readily observed in all larvae, and on one occasion the gut was seen to freeze separately from the haemocoel. There were no apparent qualitative differences in ice formation between freeze tolerant and non-freeze tolerant larvae. The time to complete freezing was positively related to temperature of nucleation (supercooling point, SCP), and SCP declined with decreasing body size, although this relationship was less strong in diapausing C. amoena. Nucleation generally occurred at a contact point with the thermocouple or chamber wall in non-diapausing larvae, but at random in diapausing larvae, suggesting that the latter have some control over ice nucleation. There were no apparent differences between freeze tolerant and non-freeze tolerant larvae in tracheal displacement or distension of the body during freezing, although there was markedly more distension in D. melanogaster than in C. amoena regardless of diapause state. We conclude that although control of ice nucleation appears to be important in freeze tolerant individuals, the physical ice formation process itself does not differ among larvae that can and cannot survive freezing. This suggests that a focus on cellular and biochemical mechanisms is appropriate and may reveal the primary adaptations allowing freeze tolerance in insects.
Ice	11085306	Methamphetamine	Two inbred strains of rats, Fischer 344 and Lewis, showed differential behavior and brain expression of corticosterone receptor mRNA induced by methamphetamine.Recently, a role of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis in facilitating the behavioral and neurochemical effects of psychostimulants has been proposed. Two inbred strains of rats, Fischer 344/N (F344) and Lewis/N (LEW), have markedly different HPA axes as well as behavioral responses to psychostimulants: F344 rats show hyperresponsive HPA axis and no significant sensitization to cocaine, whereas LEW rats display blunted response in HPA axis and develop cocaine-induced locomotor sensitization. Corticosterone exerts its biological effects via intracellular receptors, termed type I (mineralocorticoid receptor: MR) and type II (glucocorticoid receptor: GR). The present study examines the development of stereotypy sensitization and the brain expression of mRNAs for MR, GR, and heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) in methamphetamine (MAP)-treated F344 and LEW rats. Animals received i.p. injections with chronic saline (SAL: once daily for 21 days), chronic saline and acute MAP (AM: saline for 20 days and 4 mg/kg MAP on the 21st day), or chronic MAP (CM: 4 mg/kg MAP for 21 days) and were sacrificed three hours after the last injections. Striatum, hippocampus, and cerebellum were quickly dissected on <e>ice</e> and total RNA was isolated for northern analyses. LEW rats developed stereotypy sensitization significantly earlier than F344 rats. AM significantly decreased GR and MR mRNA expression in hippocampus of LEW, compared to SAL. CM significantly increased GR and MR mRNA expression in striatum of F344 compared to SAL and AM, while it decreased GR mRNA in striatum of LEW and MR mRNA in hippocampus, compared to SAL. AM significantly increased HSP90 mRNA in all brain regions examined, without the hippocampus in LEW. CM significantly increased the expression of HSP90 mRNA in the striatum and cerebellum of F344, but significantly decreased in the striatum and hippocampus of LEW. These contrasting differences between F344 and LEW, in their susceptibility to stereotypy sensitization and striatal expression of GR mRNA by chronic MAP, suggest that some striatal genes, whose transcription is regulated by GR, play a crucial role in the development of MAP-induced behavioral sensitization.
Ice	19722399	Ice	Effect of gutting on microbial loads, sensory properties, and volatile and biogenic amine contents of European hake (Merluccius merluccius var. mediterraneus) stored in <e>ice</e>.The effect of gutting on sensory, microbiological, and chemical properties of European hake (Merluccius merluccius var. mediterraneus) stored in ice was studied. Gutting of hake noticeably affected the development of gram-negative bacteria: counts of Enterobacteriaceae, Shewanella putrefaciens, and Pseudomonas throughout ice storage were higher in gutted than in ungutted samples. These differences in microbial loads were also reflected in the lower sensory scores of both raw and cooked hake, in the quicker trimethylamine accumulation, and in the higher contents of putrescine, cadaverine, tyramine, and histamine found in gutted hake. All of the fish quality indicators studied showed that gutting made hake more susceptible to spoilage during ice storage and decreased its shelf life by 4 days.
Ice	19644517	Ice	Nitro derivatives from the Arctic <e>ice</e> bacterium Salegentibacter sp. isolate T436.Twenty-five aromatic nitro, dinitro and trinitro compounds were isolated in low yields of less than 1 mg l(-1) from a Salegentibacter sp. strain T436 derived from Arctic pack ice. Their structures were elucidated by MS and NMR techniques. Seven of these compounds, namely, 2-hydroxy-3-(4'-hydroxy-3'-nitrophenyl)-propionic acid methyl ester (6), 2-chloro-3- (4'-hydroxy-3'-nitrophenyl)propionic acid methyl ester (7), 3-(4'-hydroxy-3',5'-dinitrophenyl)-propionic acid methyl ester (14), 4'-hydroxy-3',5'-dinitrophenylethylchloride (16), (4'-hydroxy-3',5'-dinitrophenyl)-2-chloropropionic acid methyl ester (17), N-acetyl-3',5'-dinitrotyramine (18) and 2,6-dinitro-4-(2'-nitroethenyl)phenol (19) are new, and five are reported in this study from a natural source for the first time.
Ice	16201101	Caspase-1	The concentration of sFasL, <e>ICE</e> and IL-1beta in the serum and the liver tissue of chronic HCV infected patients.BACKGROUND/AIMS: In HCV infected patients HCV, apoptosis is as important as cytotoxicity. The aim of the present study was to estimate the activity of apoptosis in patients infected with hepatitis C before and during antiviral treatment. METHODOLOGY: 23 patients with hepatitis C were treated with Rebetron for 12 months. The concentration of IL-1beta, ICE and sFasL in the serum and liver tissue was analyzed before treatment was begun. The concentrations of IL-1beta, ICE and sFasL after 2 and 12 weeks of treatment were also analyzed. The concentrations of IL-1beta, ICE and sFasL in the liver tissue of patients with hepatitis C were compared with the concentrations in liver tissue of patients with alcohol related liver damage, but not HBV or HCV infected. RESULTS: Only 35% of the patients eliminated HCV-RNA from the blood six months after treatment had ended. The concentration of ICE and IL-1beta in the liver tissue of patients with hepatitis C was compared to concentrations in the liver tissue of patients with alcohol related liver damage. The concentration of sFasL in the liver tissue was twice as high among patients with alcohol related liver damage in comparison to the patients with infected hepatitis C. In the control group sFasL and ICE were not confirmed in the serum. After antiviral therapy the number of patients with sFas ligand in the blood increased (before beginning treatment 1 patient, after 12 weeks 8 patients). The high concentrations of ICE and IL-1beta in the serum showed a tendency to decrease during 12 weeks of therapy in the successfully treated patients. CONCLUSIONS: The HCV seems to be a mild stimulator of apoptosis. There was only a slight correlation between the morphology changes in the liver tissue and apoptosis in patients with HCV. There was no correlation between the success of the therapy and the apoptosis activity.
Ice	18082974	Methamphetamine	A comparison of the physiological, behavioral, neurochemical and microglial effects of methamphetamine and 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine in the mouse.3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) and methamphetamine (METH) are amphetamine analogues with similar persistent neurochemical effects in the mouse which some have described as neurotoxicity. We attempted to identify dose regimens of MDMA and METH with similar effects on behavioral and physiological variables in the mouse, then quantified the effects of these dose regimens on neurochemistry and microglial markers. Four discrete injections of saline, MDMA (10, 20, or 30 mg/kg), or METH (5 or 10 mg/kg) were administered to mice at 2 h intervals. Body weight was quantified immediately before each injection, and 2 h after the last injection, while core temperature and locomotor activity were continuously monitored via radiotelemetry. Mice were killed 72 h after the final injection and brains were rapidly dissected on <e>ice</e>. Dopamine content in various brain regions was quantified via high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC), and microglial activation was assessed by saturation binding of the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor (PBR) ligand 1-(2-chlorophenyl)-N-methyl-N-(1-methylpropyl)-3-isoquinoline carboxamide ([(3)H]PK11195). Specific dose regimens of MDMA and METH induced similar reductions in body weight, depletions of dopamine and its metabolites, and similar hyperthermic and locomotor stimulant effects, but only METH activated microglia in striatum. These results suggest that repeated high doses of MDMA and METH that produce hyperthermia, locomotor stereotypy, weight loss and neurochemical depletion are not consistently accompanied by microglial activation. The finding that METH, but not MDMA, induces microglial effects in the striatum consistent with neurotoxicity might imply different mechanisms of toxic action for these two psychostimulants.
Ice	19559692	Ice	Isochoric preservation: a novel characterization method.Isochoric (constant volume) preservation is an alternative to traditional cryopreservation methods because it requires less cryoprotectant and is simple to operate. In order to validate that this method automatically minimizes the pressure for a given temperature, pressure and temperature data were collected from a specially designed pressure vessel. This vessel was then used to examine the effect of an isochoric environment on freezing point nucleation in an aqueous antifreeze protein solution, and to generate pressure-temperature phase diagrams for various cryoprotectant solutions. Our results show that the isochoric pressure vessel follows the pressure-temperature phase diagram of water, thereby minimizing the pressure for the given temperature. We also show that the nucleation temperature of the antifreeze protein in an isochoric vessel is lower than that of the isobaric method. Furthermore, the nucleation temperature decreased with increasing concentration in the isochoric vessel while the isobaric nucleation temperature showed no change. These results indicate that the isochoric environment imposes additional constraints on <e>ice</e> formation and warrants further study as these results may change when a different type of cryoprotectant is used. Finally, all of the cryoprotectant phase diagrams exhibited a similar pressure-temperature slope indicating that, regardless of the cryoprotectant used or the mechanism by which it suppresses freezing, isochoric freezing affects the molecules in the same manner. Together, all of these results indicate that the isochoric method of preservation is a valuable tool for characterizing the thermodynamic properties of cryoprotectants and has great potential as a cryopreservation method in the field of cryobiology.
Ice	19604535	Ice	Inverse temperature dependence of Henry's law coefficients for volatile organic compounds in supercooled water.Upon supercooling, water expels volatile organic compounds (VOC), and Henry's law coefficients are increasing concomitant with decreasing temperature. This unexpected observation was found by measuring the VOC partitioning between supercooled water and gas phase in the temperature range from -5 degrees C to -15 degrees C for benzene, toluene, ethlybenzene, m-, p-, o-xylenes (BTEX), methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE) and ethyl tert-butyl ether (ETBE). Aqueous standard solutions were analyzed using a static headspace method in combination with gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS). Dimensionless Henry's law coefficients (K(AW)) were calculated from measurements of the concentration of the VOCs in the headspace above the standard solutions at temperatures between -25 degrees C and 25 degrees C. The results show that the well known temperature dependence of Henry's law coefficients at temperatures above 0 degrees C is inversed upon decreasing the temperature below 0 degrees C and formation of supercooled water while decreasing the temperature to -15 degrees C. Upon further decrease of the temperature to -25 degrees C freezing of the supercooled water occurs. K(AW) values increase from 0.092 (benzene), 0.099 (toluene), 0.098 (ethylbenzene), 0.117 (m/p-xylene), 0.076 (o-xylene), 0.012 (MTBE) and 0.014 (ETBE at 5 degrees C to 0.298 (benzene), 0.498 (toluene), 0.944 (ethylbenzene), 0.327 (m/p-xylene), 0.342 (o-xylene), 0.029 (MTBE) and 0.041 (ETBE) at -25 degrees C, respectively. Inversion of Henry coefficients upon cooling the aqueous solutions to temperatures below 0 degrees C is explained by the increasing formation of <e>ice</e>-like clusters in the water below 0 degrees C. The VOC are expelled from these clusters resulting in enhanced VOC concentrations in the gas phase upon supercooling. Formation of ice upon further cooling to -25 degrees C results in a further increase of the VOC concentrations in the gas phase above the ice. The findings have implications for the partitioning of VOC in clouds between the gas phase, supercooled water droplets, aerosol particles and ice.
Ice	19937284	Ice	Reduced pressure <e>ice</e> fog technique for controlled ice nucleation during freeze-drying.A method to achieve controlled ice nucleation during the freeze-drying process using an ice fog technique was demonstrated in an earlier report. However, the time required for nucleation was about 5 min, even though only one shelf was used, which resulted in Ostwald ripening (annealing) in some of the vials that nucleated earlier than the others. As a result, the ice structure was not optimally uniform in all the vials. The objective of the present study is to introduce a simple variation of the ice fog method whereby a reduced pressure in the chamber is utilized to allow more rapid and uniform freezing which is also potentially easier to scale up. Experiments were conducted on a lab scale freeze dryer with sucrose as model compound at different concentration, product load, and fill volume. Product resistance during primary drying was measured using manometric temperature measurement. Specific surface area of the freeze-dried cake was also determined. No difference was observed either in average product resistance or specific surface area for the different experimental conditions studied, indicating that with use of the reduced pressure ice fog technique, the solutions nucleated at very nearly the same temperature (-10 degrees C). The striking feature of the  Reduced Pressure Ice Fog Technique  is the rapid ice nucleation (less than a minute) under conditions where the earlier procedure required about 5 min; hence, effects of variable Ostwald ripening were not an issue.
Ice	20110999	Ice	Ensemble reconstruction constraints on the global carbon cycle sensitivity to climate.The processes controlling the carbon flux and carbon storage of the atmosphere, ocean and terrestrial biosphere are temperature sensitive and are likely to provide a positive feedback leading to amplified anthropogenic warming. Owing to this feedback, at timescales ranging from interannual to the 20-100-kyr cycles of Earth's orbital variations, warming of the climate system causes a net release of CO(2) into the atmosphere; this in turn amplifies warming. But the magnitude of the climate sensitivity of the global carbon cycle (termed gamma), and thus of its positive feedback strength, is under debate, giving rise to large uncertainties in global warming projections. Here we quantify the median gamma as 7.7 p.p.m.v. CO(2) per degrees C warming, with a likely range of 1.7-21.4 p.p.m.v. CO(2) per degrees C. Sensitivity experiments exclude significant influence of pre-industrial land-use change on these estimates. Our results, based on the coupling of a probabilistic approach with an ensemble of proxy-based temperature reconstructions and pre-industrial CO(2) data from three <e>ice</e> cores, provide robust constraints for gamma on the policy-relevant multi-decadal to centennial timescales. By using an ensemble of &gt;200,000 members, quantification of gamma is not only improved, but also likelihoods can be assigned, thereby providing a benchmark for future model simulations. Although uncertainties do not at present allow exclusion of gamma calculated from any of ten coupled carbon-climate models, we find that gamma is about twice as likely to fall in the lowermost than in the uppermost quartile of their range. Our results are incompatibly lower (P &lt; 0.05) than recent pre-industrial empirical estimates of approximately 40 p.p.m.v. CO(2) per degrees C (refs 6, 7), and correspondingly suggest approximately 80% less potential amplification of ongoing global warming.
Ice	17138058	Caspase-1	sCD30, interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme and anti-Annexin V autoantibodies concentrations in heart transplant recipients.sCD30 and <e>ICE</e>/caspase-1 as apoptosis-regulating factors are suspected to be involved in the survival rate of immunocompetent cells during immunosuppression after allotransplantation. Serum CD30 and ICE/caspase-1 concentrations were estimated and associated with unspecific serum apoptosis marker--anti-Annexin V antibodies and myocardial biopsies results. MATERIALS AND METHODS: 28 clinically stabile patients--heart transplant recipients at least 3 months after cardiac transplantation performed due to heart failure caused by ischaemic and/or congestive cardiomyopathy or/and primary valvular heart disease (26 men and 2 women, mean age=36.8 years, S.D.=7.6) with normal heart function assessed by use of ultrasound scan--were involved in the trial. The patients were divided and analyzed in two ways: first according to the results of elective endomyocardial biopsies and second to main immunosuppressive agent used. The enzyme immunoassay (CD30, Dako; interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme (ICE)/Caspase-1 ELISA and anti-Annexin V BENDER MedSystem) for soluble CD30, caspase-1 and anti-Annexin V autoantibodies serum levels was used. RESULTS: sCD30 and caspase-1 concentrations were non-significantly up-regulated in all analysed groups--with or without rejection signs or immunosuppressed with cyclosporine or especially tacrolimus. In contrast anti-Annexin V autoantibodies concentration was non-significantly down-regulated also in all studied groups. Moreover in the group with signs of transplant rejection, strong negative correlation between anti-Annexin antibodies and rejection grade was observed (-0.65, p&lt;0.05). Biopsy results were comparable in groups treated with tacrolimus and cyclosporine A. CONCLUSIONS: The increasing tendency of sCD30 and caspase-1 as well as the decrease in anti-Annexin V autoantibodies concentrations in heart recipients could be the result of post-transplant apoptosis disturbances. This tendency seems to be inhibited in a greater degree by tacrolimus than by cyclosporine. Anti-Annexin V autoantibodies might be considered as negative rejection markers due to their strong negative correlation with the rejection grade.
Ice	7932687	Methamphetamine	<e>Ice</e>--a new drug of concern?Methamphetamine has long been a drug of abuse. Recently, a resurgence of its use has spread across the country. A smokable form of methamphetamine hydrochloride with the street name  ice  has spread eastward from Hawaii and California. It has strong stimulant properties, is twice as toxic as amphetamine, is associated with multiple system effects similar to cocaine. Treatment of acute intoxication is symptomatic and may include hydration, temperature regulation, seizure management, control of agitation, and monitoring for cardiac arrhythmias. Long-term treatment of addiction requires drug rehabilitation and inpatient counseling.
Ice	15067075	Caspase-1	Janus kinase 3 down-regulates lipopolysaccharide-induced IL-1 beta-converting enzyme activation by autocrine IL-10.ProIL-1 beta processing by IL-1 beta-converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>) and the subsequent release of mature IL-1 beta are highly regulated events in the monocyte/macrophage response to pathogens. This process occurs in a controlled way through the activation of the constitutively expressed 45-kDa ICE precursor (proICE). To characterize the signaling pathways involved in ICE regulation in human monocytes/macrophages, we analyzed ICE activation in the presence of specific inhibitors of classic signaling pathways. Although LPS-induced ICE activity was not significantly affected by interruption of extracellular signal-regulated kinase, p38 kinase, or phosphoinositol 3-kinase, Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) inhibition produced a significant dose-dependent enhancement of LPS-induced ICE activity. Support for the inhibitory role of JAK3 was shown by the fact that IL-4 (which uses JAK1 and JAK3 signaling) suppressed LPS-induced ICE activity and by the finding that JAK3 knockout macrophages have increased LPS-induced ICE activation. To understand how JAK3 down-regulates LPS-induced ICE activity in monocytes, we hypothesized that JAK3 signaling enhances IL-10 production. In support of this model we show that LPS-induced IL-10 expression was synchronous with ICE deactivation, IL-4 induced the release of IL-10, exogenous IL-10 suppressed LPS-induced ICE activity, a neutralizing IL-10 Ab increased LPS-induced ICE activity, and, finally, JAK3 knockout macrophages displayed significantly reduced LPS-induced IL-10 production. These findings support a model in which JAK3 signaling enhances IL-10 production leading to down-regulation of ICE activation and suppression of IL-1 beta processing and release.
Ice	20040364	Ice	Analysis of supercooling-facilitating (anti-<e>ice</e> nucleation) activity of flavonol glycosides.Deep supercooling xylem parenchyma cells (XPCs) of katsura tree (Cercidiphyllum japonicum) contain four kinds of flavonol glycosides with high supercooling-facilitating (anti-ice nucleation) activities. These flavonol glycosides have very similar structures, but their supercooling-facilitating activities are very different. In this study, we analyzed the supercooling-facilitating activities of 12 kinds of flavonol glycosides in order to determine the chemical structures that might affect supercooling-facilitating activity. All of the flavonol glycosides tested showed supercooling-facilitating activity, although the magnitudes of activity differed among the compounds. It was clear that the combination of the position of attachment of the glycosyl moiety, the kind of attached glycosyl moiety and the structure of aglycone determined the magnitude of anti-ice nucleation activity. However, there is still some ambiguity preventing the exact identification of features that affect the magnitude of supercooling-facilitating activity.
Ice	10573301	Methamphetamine	Methamphetamines: use and trafficking in the Tucson-Nogales area.A national increase in the use of methamphetamine, a cheap, accessible, and dangerous drug, prompted the National Institute on Drug Addiction to sponsor an ethnographic study in the Tucson-Nogales area. This area has experienced a rapid rise in methamphetamine (also known as meth, speed, crank, smoke, or crystal <e>ice</e>) use during the past 3 years. Mexican and Canadian borders are ports of entry for meth and precursor substances, and home manufacturing has increased substantially. The dual consequences of overdose and addiction result in devastating long-term psychological and physiological problems. Increased law enforcement and citizen awareness in controlling the  epidemic  are key elements in curbing the problem.
Ice	20007863	Ice	Iapetus: unique surface properties and a global color dichotomy from Cassini imaging.Since 2004, Saturn's moon Iapetus has been observed repeatedly with the Imaging Science Subsystem of the Cassini spacecraft. The images show numerous impact craters down to the resolution limit of approximately 10 meters per pixel. Small, bright craters within the dark hemisphere indicate a dark blanket thickness on the order of meters or less. Dark, equator-facing and bright, poleward-facing crater walls suggest temperature-driven water-<e>ice</e> sublimation as the process responsible for local albedo patterns. Imaging data also reveal a global color dichotomy, wherein both dark and bright materials on the leading side have a substantially redder color than the respective trailing-side materials. This global pattern indicates an exogenic origin for the redder leading-side parts and suggests that the global color dichotomy initiated the thermal formation of the global albedo dichotomy.
Ice	19878734	Ice	Intracellular <e>ice</e> formation in insects: unresolved after 50 years?Many insects survive internal ice formation. The general model of freeze tolerance is of extracellular ice formation (EIF) whereby ice formation in the haemocoel leads to osmotic dehydration of the cells, whose contents remain unfrozen. However, survivable intracellular ice formation (IIF) has been reported in fat body and certain other cells of some insects. Although the cellular location of ice has been determined only in vitro, several lines of evidence suggest that IIF occurs in vivo. Both cell-to-cell propagation of intracellular ice and inoculation from the haemocoel may be important, although the route of ice into the cell is unclear. It is unclear why some cells survive IIF and others do not, but it is suggested that the shape, size, and low water content of fat body cells may predispose them towards surviving ice formation. We speculate that IIF may reduce water loss in some freeze tolerant species, but there are too few data to build a strong conceptual model of the advantages of IIF. We suggest that new developments in microscopy and other forms of imaging may allow investigation of the cellular location of ice in freeze tolerant insects in vivo.
Ice	19675614	Ice	<e>Ice</e>-core researchers hope to chill out.
Ice	19640147	Ice	Effect of controlled <e>ice</e> nucleation on primary drying stage and protein recovery in vials cooled in a modified freeze-dryer.The freezing step influences lyophilization efficiency and protein stability. The main objective of this work was to investigate the impact on the primary drying stage of an ultrasound controlled ice nucleation technology, compared with usual freezing protocols. Lyophilization cycles involving different freezing protocols (applying a constant shelf cooling rate of 1 degrees C/min or 0.2 degrees C/min, putting vials on a precooled shelf, and controlling nucleation by ultrasounds or by addition of a nucleating agent) were performed in a prototype freeze-dryer. Three protective media including sucrose or maltodextrin and differing by their thermal properties and their ability to preserve a model protein (catalase) were used. The visual aspect of the lyophilized cake, residual water content, and enzymatic activity recovery of catalase were assessed after each lyophilization cycle and after 1 month of storage of the lyophilized product at 4 degrees C and 25 degrees C. The freezing protocols allowing increasing nucleation temperature (precooled shelf and controlled nucleation by using ultrasounds or a nucleating agent) induced a faster sublimation step and higher sublimation rate homogeneity. Whatever the composition of the protective medium, applying the ultrasound technology made it possible to decrease the sublimation time by 14%, compared with the freezing method involving a constant shelf cooling rate of 1 degrees C/min. Concerning the enzyme activity recovery, the impact of the freezing protocol was observed only for the protective medium involving maltodextrin, a less effective protective agent than sucrose. Higher activity recovery results were obtained after storage when the ultrasound technology or the precooled shelf method was applied. Controlling ice nucleation during the freezing step of the lyophilization process improved the homogeneity of the sublimation rates, which will, in turn, reduce the intervial heterogeneity. The freeze-dryer prototype including the system of controlled nucleation by ultrasounds appears to be a promising tool in accelerating sublimation and improving intrabatch homogeneity.
Ice	14598973	Caspase-1	Impaired interleukin-1beta converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>) activity in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis.We measured the activity of IL-1beta converting enzyme (ICE) of monocytes from pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) patients. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and serum were collected from PTB patients (n = 16) and healthy subjects (n = 6). Serum IL-18 levels were significantly higher in PTB patients (515.9 +/- 326.5 pg/ml) than in controls (108.7 +/- 65.2 pg/ml) (P &lt; 0.01), but gradually decreased with tuberculosis therapy. ICE activity was significantly lower in TB patients (65.3 +/- 34.4 vs. 142.2 +/- 75.6 U/mg) (P &lt; 0.05). Serum IL-18 levels inversely correlated with ICE activity (P &lt; 0.05). Altered ICE activity may explain why there is reduced IFN-gamma production from PBMCs; however, serum IL-18 is probably not regulated by ICE in monocytes in TB patients.
Ice	12829320	Caspase-1	Hypoxic induction of caspase-11/caspase-1/interleukin-1beta in brain microglia.Caspase-11 is an inducible protease that plays an important role in both inflammation and apoptosis. Inflammatory stimuli induce and activate caspase-11, which is required for the activation of caspase-1 or interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) converting enzyme (<e>ICE</e>). Caspase-1 in turn mediates the maturation of proinflammatory cytokines such as IL-1beta, which is one of the crucial mediators of neurodegeneration in the central nervous system. Here, we report that hypoxic exposure of cultured brain microglia (BV-2 mouse microglia cells and rat primary microglial cultures) induces expression and activation of caspase-11, which is accompanied by activation of caspase-1 and secretion of mature IL-1beta and IL-18. Hypoxic induction of caspase-11 was observed in both mRNA and protein levels, and was mediated through p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway. Transient global ischemia in rats also induced caspase-11 expression and IL-1beta production in hippocampus supporting our in vitro findings. Caspase-11-expressing cells in hippocampus were morphologically identified as microglia. Taken together, our results indicate that hypoxia induces a sequential event-caspase-11 induction, caspase-1 activation, and IL-1beta release-in brain microglia, and point out the importance of initial caspase-11 induction in hypoxia-induced inflammatory activation of microglia.
Ice	11831497	Methamphetamine	Patterns of methamphetamine abuse and their consequences.The abuse of methamphetamine (METH) continues to increase throughout all age groups in different regions of the United States.  <e>Ice</e>,  the popularized jargon for (+) methamphetamine hydrochloride, is the predominant drug form that is now consumed.  Ice  is effectively absorbed after either smoking or snorting and it is this rapid influx of drug that produces effects similar to those after intravenous administration. The intensity of METH actions in the central and peripheral nervous system shows tolerance after chronic administration, indicating that neuroadaptations have occurred. Thus, the physiological processes and corresponding biochemical mechanisms that regulate neuronal function have been changed by METH exposure. These biological alterations contribute to the craving and dependence associated with METH abuse and the withdrawal syndrome upon abstinence. However, these changes in behavior may also result from METH-induced neurotoxicity. This article reviews aspects of METH pharmacokinetics and related molecular pharmacodynamics that represent METH pharmacology and then relates those actions to their potential to produce neurotoxicity in humans.
Ice	20333961	Ice	[Death in <e>ice</e> -- rescue teams are prepared. Tips for the ice accident]
